Amazon signs up Excel Entertainment to ensure enough takers for Prime service in India05 Aug, 2016 01:05 AM ISTFarhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani’s production house Excel Entertainment will create Amazon’s first show, Power Play#Amazon signs up Excel Entertainment to ensure enough takers for Prime service in India#  MUMBAI: Amazon has signed up one of India's top banners to ensure that its Prime service will have enough takers in the country. Farhan Akhtar and Ritesh Sidhwani's production house Excel Entertainment will create Amazon's first show, Power Play, said a person with knowledge of the matter. Filming for the cricket-and-showbiz--themed series is set to start on August 16. Another crime-based show is also said to be in the works.     The online marketplace debuted Amazon Prime in India last month, offering quicker service and an early crack at deals. Video on demand will come later, it had said. In the US and elsewhere, Amazon and Netflix have broken into the space traditionally occupied by TV channels with shows that have tackled unconventional themes such as Transparent and Orange Is the New Black. Netflix, which entered India in January, is also working on shows.     Excel Entertainment director Sidhwani confirmed it was working on a series but declined to comment on Amazon's involvement or other details.     "We have set up an independent team for it," he said. "We have worked on these shows for the last eight-nine months."     The project is tied to Excel's move into digital, with the company having taken a 10% stake in mobile application Flickbay, he said. Excel has been helping to build the platform over the past year as a portal for film information and ratings.     Amazon declined to comment.     Netflix is making an original series based on the book Sacred Games by Vikram Chandra in association with Phantom Studios, owned by Anurag Kashyap. Besides this, at least one film maker has chosen to debut his film--Brahman Naman directed by Qaushiq Mukherjee--on Netflix rather than seeking a conventional movie-hall release. That would have meant seeking the censor board's approval, which has proven difficult at times.     Online content distributors are rushing to stake out their positions as the Indian market looks to be on the cusp of a boom with smartphones and 4G proliferating. Multi-channel networks and other entertainment powerhouses such as Yash Raj Films are seeking out audiences through the internet, all of which will be competition for Amazon and Netflix along with traditional TV.     The upcoming commercial start of 4G services by Mukesh Ambani-owned Reliance Jio Infocomm has spurred rivals to push their own high-speed offerings. The way to leverage this emerging ecosystem will be a combination of video entertainment, ecommerce and messaging, experts said.     Amazon will also be looking to Prime as a means of further differentiating itself from homegrown ecommerce competitors such as Flipkart and Snapdeal. "Amazon's focus on content in India will be second to none," said the person cited above.     Director Karan Anshuman is involved in the making of Power Play, the person said. A second show, a gangster epic set in Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh, will start production in December. The series is said to be loosely based on Narcos, a Netflix production.     The shows will be in Hindi and English and the producers have been promised a presence on Amazon's global platform, including some degree of branding and promotion, the person said.     In the US, Prime has been a success thanks to the audio and video content that consumers can access, apart from advantages such as free delivery.     Amazon Prime is currently available in India for a free 60-day trial after which the annual subscription fee will be Rs 499, going up to Rs 999. In the US, a Prime subscription costs $99 (Rs 6,670) and in the UK £96 (Rs 8,450).  