Benefits & challenges for auto sector in GST Bill05 Aug, 2016 11:30 AM ISTImpact of Tax cascading will go away that will reduce overall cost of vehicle manufacturing. All taxes on input paid will be offset with the output liability of GST.#Benefits & challenges for auto sector in GST Bill# By Abdul Majeed    The current Indirect tax regime in India provides for a complex tax environment due to multiplicity of taxes, elaborate compliance obligations and tax cascading. The automobile industry has its own complexity such as longer investment cycle, development of vendors/ part makers, substantial outsourced processes, unique market approach, etc.     India finally seems to be on the cusp of implementing a much-awaited tax regime. On 03 August 2016, the bill to implement India's biggest economic reform since independence, the Goods and Services Tax (GST), was tabled in the Rajya Sabha. The model central GST law and the integrated GST law now will have to be ratified by 50% of the state assemblies and then receive President's assent.     Once the bill gets passed, the GST council, comprising of the finance ministers and the Union finance minister, will be set up. It will decide on the tax rate that will be under GST, the revenue threshold below which traders will be exempted from the levy and also the administrative processes under GST. However GST rates will be the key. If the GST rate is in the range of 18 percent, it will be better and also competitive compared to other developing markets.     In a lucid term, the GST stands for one singular tax to be imposed on all goods and services in the country and will replace all forms of indirect taxes that we, as consumers, are paying for right now. In the light of the above development, industry now need to analyse the provisions of the draft law in detail, and assess its impact on their business. While there are issues of concern common across sectors, let us sought to identify the positive & challenges of the Model GST Law as may be relevant for the automobile sector.     Read Here The Model GST Bill     Impact of Tax cascading will go away that will reduce overall cost of vehicle manufacturing. All taxes on input paid will be offset with the output liability of GST.     Positive     1. Vehicle prices - At present, the excise duty for vehicles is divided into four slabs, in which the smallest tax rate is applicable to small cars. With GST implementation, taxes levied by the centre like excise duty and state levels taxes like sales tax, road and registration tax would all be subsumed into one.     Assuming that the proposed tax rate of 18-20 percent is accepted, the vehicle prices are expected to decrease. The vehicle prices are expected to be more affordable and thus will create demand. Although it still remains to be seen if there would be a dual tax structure for small and big cars.     2. 'One Market' - The overall compliance burden is expected to decrease and bring lot more efficiency in operations. From the Indirect tax prospective the whole country will be treated as 'One Market' and will add to operational efficiencies. One could expect the logjam at checkpost, etc. will get eliminated.     Overall economic activity is expected to increase and we could expect a better GDP growth that should push demand for vehicle across categories.     Impact of Tax cascading will go away that will reduce overall cost of vehicle manufacturing. All taxes on input paid will be offset with the output liability of GST.     Challenges and Clarity needed     1. Valuation Disputes - The Automobile industry has seen significant disputes under central excise valuation like: sale below the cost for market penetration, inclusion of State Industrial Promotion Subsidies retained by the manufacturer, deductibility of post-sale discounts from value under excise, valuation of demo cars, treatment of PDI charges and other dealer reimbursements, advertisement charges recovered from dealers etc., and sales through marketing companies and mutuality of interest. The Model GST law continues with the concept of 'transaction value' which is a welcome measure however the powers for rejection of the transaction value are very wide, and could lead to significant valuation disputes.     Currently, dealer incentive schemes are not subject to VAT, but there are issues on applicability of service tax on dealers, depending on the terms of each scheme.     2. Job work - The job work process is the backbone for automobile industry operations. The Model GST law treats 'job work' as a service and seeks to maintain existing excise procedures for the job work transactions, i.e. non-taxability of job work transaction and providing credits to the principal for supplies to job worker, 180 days condition for bringing back goods after job work, etc. However, some more clarity is needed in the conceptual framework for job work else will pose a challenge.     3. Credits on vendor tooling - It is a common practice in the automobile industry for vendors to develop tools/ moulds for manufacture of parts of automobiles. Typically, the ownership of such tools is transferred to the OEMs, and the cost is also recovered from OEMs. However, the tools are physically located in the vendor's factory for manufacture of parts. Under the Model GST law, the definition of 'capital goods' covers only those goods which are used at the place of business of supply of goods.     Thus, only goods which are used in the place of business of OEM seem to be eligible for GST credit in the OEM's hands. This definition would pose a challenge to the OEMs in availing credits relating to tools located in the premises, on which cost is recovered by the vendors. This could possibly result in increase in the cost of tooling and the cost for manufacture.     4. Time of supply for payment - Currently, under the excise law, duty is paid at the time of removal of the vehicles manufactured. VAT is paid at the time of sale of vehicles. The Model GST law specifies that the time of supply of goods shall be at the earliest of: Date of removal of goods, Date of which goods are made available to recipient, Date of invoice, Date of receipt of payment with respect to the supply, Date of receipt of goods as shown in the books of accounts by recipient. Under the existing law, receipt of advance towards supply of goods is not a taxable event, both under Central Excise and VAT law.     However, under the Model GST Law, receipt of advance is sought to be treated as a taxable event. Considering the practice of 'cash & carry' followed by vehicle manufacturers and also the dealer network following advance for supply with its customers, the change in the timing of supply would result in significant changes in the cash flow, and also procedural changes for manufacturers and dealers. The industry would also need to consider that there could be more than one GST invoice for the supply of vehicles. This has to be factored along with the procedure followed by various State Regional Transport Office (RTO), to avoid any hassles in relation to registration of vehicles.     With the introduction of GST, taxes move from the Origin State to the Consumption State. This would result in significant reduction of flow-back of IPS, since GST on inter-state sales is not credited to the Origin State.     5. Dealer Incentive Schemes - Currently, dealer incentive schemes are not subject to VAT, but there are issues on applicability of service tax on dealers, depending on the terms of each scheme. The industry is of the view that these schemes are not an independent service by dealers to the manufacturers, but are in the nature of post-sale discounts. The Model GST law does not provide as to whether these incentives or discounts are subject to GST.     Further, since the original supply would have already suffered GST and the buyer would have taken the input tax credit, the issue of whether these incentives/ discounts would impact the price and credits, or will these be kept out of GST (in the VAT chain), needs to be addressed. Further, in case such schemes are subject to GST, whether the same would be treated as a service or goods is also another aspect that needs to be clarified.     6. Lack of clarity on subsuming of cess - The automotive industry has witnessed several cesses, including automobile cess, NCCD, tractor cess and infrastructure cess. In the discussions on GST, the Government has indicated its intention to subsume all Central and State cesses into GST. However, on a reading of the Model GST law and the constitutional amendment bill, it is not clear as to whether the cesses levied under different legislations (for specified purposes) will be subsumed into GST or would continue under the GST scenario.     7. Input Tax Credit - The definition of capital goods has been drafted on the same lines as the existing CENVAT Credit Rules. Accordingly, input tax credit will be allowed only of those goods falling within specified Chapters to the Model GST Law. Further, the definition of inputs and input services also provides for exclusions. Therefore, it appears that even under GST, restrictions on input tax credit will continue. Further, a nexus of goods and services received is also required to be established with outward supplies. Accordingly, nexus-related litigation could continue under GST.     8. Stock in the hands of dealer on the transition date possible double taxation - The transition provisions provide that credit balances admissible under the present regime can be carried forward under GST. In case of stocks lying with dealer which are procured on payment of excise duty and CST, such excise duty and CST is not admissible as credit under the present regime. Accordingly, the transition of such taxes/ duties included in the stocks lying with the dealer have to be allowed. Otherwise, under the GST regime, such stocks would suffer tax again, i.e. excise duty and CST paid, and CGST and SGST on supply after the appointed date.     It still remains to be seen if there would be a dual tax structure for small and big cars.     9. Lack of clarity on MOU incentives - The investments by automobile companies are significant and have multiplier effect on the State's economy. Generally, States provide for various incentives including Investment Promotion Subsidies (IPS). A majority of the automobile manufacturers enjoy special benefits from the State Government in the form of State Investment Promotion Subsidies (IPS). This is given in the form of refund of VAT/ CST paid, or as a loan.     With the introduction of GST, taxes move from the Origin State to the Consumption State. This would result in significant reduction of flow-back of IPS, since GST on inter-state sales is not credited to the Origin State. While this issue does not strictly arise under the GST law, the shift in the place of supply significantly impacts the IPS. Unless there is a compensation mechanism to the States or to the OEMs with regard to the impact on the IPS due to GST, the effect on project viability for some of the mega automobile projects would be severe.     Nevertheless, automobile industry is looking forward to introduction of GST. However, there are quite a few concerns in the draft Model GST law, including some of the key aspects highlighted above, which need to be addressed. Restrictions and conditions on eligibility to tax credits on assets used for business is also a major area of concern, and the credit mechanism should be more liberal.     Proper GST administration and dispute resolution (more importantly on inter-state transactions) is very critical apart from the competitive GST rate. The industry is also expecting the procedural changes to be notified in advance, and may require a lead time of at least six months before introduction of GST.     Author is Partner at Price Waterhouse   