Centre returns bill for 400 per cent hike in Delhi MLA salaries05 Aug, 2016 10:33 AM ISTThe move could be another setback for the ruling AAP on the day when Delhi High Court has ruled that Lt governor is the administrative head of Delhi.#Centre returns bill for 400 per cent hike in Delhi MLA salaries#  NEW DELHI: In what may lead to another confrontation between Arvind Kejriwal's Delhi government and Centre, the home ministry has sought clarification on a bill which seeks to give Delhi MLAs and ministers a 400% hike in basic salary besides hefty increase in perks and allowances.     The move could be another setback for the ruling AAP on the day when Delhi High Court has ruled that lieutenant governor (LG) is the administrative head of Delhi.     Home ministry sources said that the bill namely — the Member of Legislative Assembly of NCT of Delhi (salaries, allowances, pension etc) Amendment Bill, 2015 — has been sent back to Delhi government through LG's office.     "We have raised few 'curable' and 'non-curable' queries. During our discussion with other central departments, clarification was sought regarding the calculation which was performed to arrive at the figures mentioned in the bill. It is not clear what method has been used to calculate the salaries for MLA and speaker," a senior government official told ET.     According to the bill, the basic salaries of legislators shall be increased from current Rs 12,000 to Rs 50,000 and their overall monthly package to Rs 2.1 lakh as against existing Rs 88,000, making them the highest paid lawmakers in the country. The home ministry, however, said the deliberations on 10 other bills of Delhi government are in process. In May this year, the Centre has returned 14 bills passed by Delhi assembly for not following 'proper procedure'.     Explaining this, North Block official said, "The executive power vested and exercised by the LG is substantially different from the governor. No other authority, functionary or person can claim to be empowered under any law to exercise the executive functions which are the sole prerogative of the LG."  