Effort led by PM Narendra Modi ensures national cuisine at Olympic Village in Rio05 Aug, 2016 01:11 AM ISTAs per the rules, no food items can be sent across to the Olympics Games kitchen so that there is no mixing of ingredients from outside the venue.#Effort led by PM Narendra Modi ensures national cuisine at Olympic Village in Rio#  NEW DELHI: India has scored an appetising victory at Rio Olympics even before the largest contingent from the country begins its medal hunt in right earnest. A concerted effort led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured that the menu at the games village includes national cuisine for the first time.     With dishes ranging from dal makhani, vegetable pulao, paneer masala and sambhar to tandoori chicken, egg bhurji, tandoori roti, raita and even sweets such as soan papdi and gulab jamun, Indian athletes can look forward to savouring meals of their choice at the gruelling competition.     "All of this has been carefully put together to make the players feel at home. It has been scientifically proved that the food one eats at home can make you mentally and physically fit," Sports Secretary Rajiv Yadav told ET.     "This time we are flying our players much earlier for them to focus better. We wanted to make sure that they get food they are used to so as to boost their performance." he said.     Just six months ago, this seemed well-nigh impossible. The Olympic Games organising committee politely refused to accede to repeated requests from India's sports ministry and the Indian Olympic Association that national cuisine be made part of the official menu at the event. The committee said that the Indian contingent had always been small and the food would go waste. Besides, who would cook Indian food for the players at the Olympics village, it asked.     As per the rules, the players can eat only the food that is cooked in the premises of the games village. It took a series of emails from the ministry to convince the committee to make room for an "Indian kitchen" at the village.     "We assured them that we will send a big contingent this time, for a longer time, and not just Indian players but every participant from Southeast Asian countries of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, and several other countries will want to eat Indian food and that they must give the cuisine a chance," said a senior ministry official, who did not wish to be identified.     Just two weeks ago, the ministry finally got the confirmation that Indian cuisine had been officially added to the Olympics menu. India is sending 119 participants to represent the country in the event that begins on August 5. The participants had conveyed to officials their request for Indian food, another official said.     "The concern was also because vegetarian food is not adequately available at international sports events. Many of our participants prefer to have vegetarian meals or at least vegetarian options," he said.     As per the rules, no food items can be sent across to the Olympics Games kitchen so that there is no mixing of ingredients from outside the venue.     Officials said the kitchen will prepare over 50,000 meals daily and the participants can pick from the broad categories of Brazilian, Asian, international continental, halal and kosher, and a special counter for pizza and pasta.     Athletes cannot bring their own food in the common dining area, they said. The main challenge was to find chefs to cook Indian food in Brazil, which has been overcome, officials said. Chinese food, the sole exception from Asia, has always been part of the Olympics menu mainly because of the high number of participants from the country, an official said.    PART OF RS 135-CR PUSH   The push for Indian food is part of the Modi government's Rs 135-crore Olympic Games push that started in January 2015 with the programme Target Olympic Podium (TOP) that included 24-hour control room monitoring, mental trainers, Australian coaches, Dutch scientific trainers and a month-long stay in Rio to get used to the place. Those participating in sports such as shooting and archery have already left for Rio as they need more acclimatisation than others, officials said.     The PM has taken a keen interest in India's preparation for the event and has held three meetings in this regard, officials said. Recently, he inaugurated the 'Run for Rio' event, aimed at giving a strong boost to the Indian contingent.     Officials said it was at the instruction of the Prime Minister's Office that the expenditure on energy supplements, mental and physical training, travelling and out-ofpocket allowance for the players was doubled to ensure they put up their best performance at the event.     For the first time India has spent at least Rs 10 crore on almost every sport, with more on archery and shooting, classified as "potential medal" areas. The women's hockey team that was given high-powered training in Bengaluru this time qualified for Olympics after 36 years.     A control room with sports ministry officials will continuously monitor India's performance till the last game. India won an unprecedented six medals at the 2012 London Olympics but the tally is expected to go up this year, officials said.  