Five stocks to buy post Q1 results, can give up to 30% return in 1 year05 Aug, 2016 10:52 AM ISTThe performance has been remarkable on a sequential basis. Net profit more than doubled compared with the previous quarter, largely on account of a lower base.#Five stocks to buy post Q1 results, can give up to 30% return in 1 year#  NEW DELHI: The June quarter earnings so far have been a mixed bag, but mostly on the positive side, which is giving some comfort to the market.     Aggregate net profit of the 829 companies, which have reported their earnings so far, rose 6.4 per cent year-on-year (YoY) to Rs 66,274 crore.     The performance has been remarkable on a sequential basis. Net profit more than doubled compared with the previous quarter, largely on account of a lower base.     However, net sales slipped 2.9 per cent QoQ to Rs 5,86,661 crore, but rose marginally above 3 per cent on a year-on-year basis.     "The ongoing corporate earnings cycle has been a bit of a mixed bag. It is not something like the whole market could get rerated based on the June quarter results. But there are pockets which should continue to outperform from a mid-term to long-term perspective," Medha Samant of Fidelity International said in an interview with ETNow.     We have collated a list of top five stocks where global brokerages such as Macquarie, CLSA, UBS, Citigroup, and CLSA have buy or outperform ratings post June quarter results. These stocks can give up to 30 per cent returns over the next 12 months:      Fortis Healthcare: Outperform| Target price Rs 250   Macquarie maintains an outperform rating on Fortis Healthcare post June quarter results with a 12-month target price of Rs 250. The global investment bank said the current level provides attractive entry opportunity with a 12-month view.     Demerger, as well as a separate listing of SRL Diagnostics, will help unlock significant value for Fortis shareholders, the Macquarie note said. The standalone hospital business is a large part of the current valuation.     The management has guided for strong sequential growth in Ebitda for the hospitals business going ahead. Fortis is trading at attractive valuations at 11.5 times FY18E EV/Ebitda.    JSW Steel: Buy | Target price Rs 1,976   Deutsche Bank maintains a buy rating on Deutsche bank with a 12-month target price of Rs 1,976. This was triggered by an impressive growth in crude steel production with a 19 per cent year-on-year (YoY) growth in July 2016 to 1.34mt, the Deutsche Bank note said.     Sustained policy support limits further downside in domestic steel prices from global weakness in steel prices. Conservative estimates factor in 18 per cent sales growth in FY17, and significant scope for upside risk.     Deutsche Bank remains positive on both volume and profitability outlook.    Arvind: Buy | Target price Rs 362   CLSA maintains a buy rating on Arvind post-June quarter results, but slashed its 12-month target price to Rs 362 from Rs 366 earlier.     The branded apparels business reported a strong 26 per cent YoY growth with a 4.3 per cent like-to-like (LTL) growth.     The management highlighted that 'unlimited' stores achieved cash break-even with 16 per cent LTL for 1QFY17. The volume-led growth in woven and garments led to beat in textiles business revenues.     Arvind is looking to aggressively pare debt through the sale of non-core assets and is also looking for JV opportunities with global companies in technical textiles.    Cadila Healthcare: Buy | Target price Rs 440   Citigroup maintains a buy rating on Cadila Healthcare post the June quarter results with a 12-month target price of Rs 440. The results were in line with estimates but there no further clarity on warning letter closure.     The pharma major is likely to file for site transfers of pipeline products over the next three months. Asacol HD authorised generic sales are likely to reflect from August 2016.     India sales got impacted by National List of Essential Medicines (NLEM), FDC ban and uncertainty in trade. Citigroup sees limited scope for further deterioration in financials.    PVR: Buy | Target price Rs 1,350   UBS maintains a buy rating on PVR post June quarter results but raised its 12-month target price to Rs 1,350 from Rs 1,100 earlier.     The risk-reward profile remains attractive and it looks like the company is at the inflection point. PVR is generating free cash flow and deleveraging swiftly which is a positive sign.     GST implementation should be positive for sentiment in the near-term assuming a GST rate of 18 per cent said the UBS note. There could be upside of 12 per cent to 25 per cent to FY18E EPS on GST.     The F&B provides growth and stability to earnings and there is further room for upside surprise.     (Views and recommendations given in this section are the analysts' own and do not represent those of ETMarkets.com. Please consult your financial adviser before taking any position in the stock/s mentioned.)  