GST will be like a credit card of the economy: Raamdeo Agrawal, MOFSL05 Aug, 2016 10:50 AM ISTIn an exclusive chat with ET Now, Raamdeo Agrawal, Joint MD, MOFSL, said that the impact of GST is going to be deep-rooted and consumers will be the ultimate winner.#GST will be like a credit card of the economy: Raamdeo Agrawal, MOFSL# In an exclusive chat with ET Now, Raamdeo Agrawal, Joint MD, MOFSL, said that the impact of GST is going to be deep-rooted and consumers will be the ultimate winner. Edited excerpts...   ET Now: It was Rexit, it was Brexit, now GST done away with. But you have always been of the belief that when it comes to India, it is all about earnings. What are you feeling about the market right now?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  So we are in earning season which is more important than anything. Of course, GST is something which is very important. It will have deep impact in companies performances but I think the real thing is that longer term - two years, three years, ten years, we will not recognise it is a same country. So the impact is going to be deep rooted and the benefit is going to be the consumers in the country as a whole. I mean it is not about companies benefit. The ease of doing business will go down. Whatever is the benefit, except for few companies which can hold it, everything will be passed on. Nobody's EBITDA margin is going to go up unless you are somebody who do not care about what prices were charges with the bag, that kind of guy.     There are very few companies like that. I mean say maybe one Pidilite but their benefit will also be very little. How many companies are there who can say that say like ITC -- they can say that I will raise the price irrespective of my cost structure. So there are very few, maybe 10 companies but that does make the market. Everybody else has to pass on. Like cement guys, steel guys they will benefit a lot but everybody is in the competition, so everybody will have to pass on. So who is the beneficiary, people like you and me.     So all the consumers will be beneficiary and that will drive the economy. Things will happen fast. Trucks will turnover faster. There will be lot of defectiveness. You want to sent something from say Mumbai to Calcutta, it used to take 10 days and uncertainty. Today, it will reach in seven days and with certainty that it will reach because there is no obstacle by the authorities. Obstacle will be now your own vehicle, breakdown or whatever. So those changes will happen. Say like when you use credit cards, so everything your payment moves smooth but earlier when do you doing cash, I mean it is lot of hassle, you carry the whole bundle, give it to him, he will give some changes. It is very slow but the moment this credit card, it moves very fast. So like that GST will be like a credit card of the economy and very large part of the economy.    ET Now: What does it mean for the markets though because for markets in the near term it is going to be about earnings, in the longer term it is going to be about earnings?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  So that is what I said, I mean earnings are not going to be impacted for many companies. Even in the immediate 12 months, 18 months, the few companies where they have pricing power, they can hold on to gains.    ET Now: So you are saying no excitement for the market?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  No, it is very exciting but I would say my PE multiple goes up not the earnings.    ET Now: But the PE multiple has already gone up to be fair here and PE multiple has gone up post March 2014. The fact that India is trading at a premium, it means that in general investors they feel that the reform progress will be strong. So there is nothing new about a GST Bill in terms of PE pricing?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  Yes between yesterday and today, there is nothing. I mean yesterday probability of GST coming...say day before probability of GST coming the moment Congress said that we are in, it shot up to may be 99% and that has become 100%, that is why market is not excited about it. But 15 days back, it was not 100%. In my mind, it was 70-75%. So today it is 100% is done. It is over. That buy on the rumour, sell on the news, so the rumour part was last 15 days, now sell on the news so it is all done.     Now I think BoE cut in the rate is more important than GST immediately because see markets are not going to wait for one year, one year after that earnings to come in because now this is only a constitutional amendment. Actual counter of whether it is going to be 18%, 20%, they will have three slabs or what is in, what is out, I think those details are going to come up some time in, now they will work it in December so we will do special show the day on which the bill is introduced that these are the rates, we know sectorally today who are beneficiaries and who are going to be I mean pay more like...we all be paying...all the service guys will be paying 2%, 3% more so we are hit at one level.     But say all this logistic intensive companies like steel, cement, they will definitely be beneficiaries but can they hold on to that gains, I do not think so. So on the whole, earnings calculation at least I personally do not think it is going to have much impact in the short term but in the long run, operational flexibility, the convenience, the hassle of not doing any... those things will be there and that will be anti-inflationary and very efficiency gaining kind of situation.    ET Now: Do you think we are in a sweet spot right now. I think the answer is yes but the reason I am saying this is because we have had one month of some bit of DII selling unfortunately coming in, maybe people have redeemed. But monsoon is great, earnings though patchy has been okay and now we have the biggest tax reform.   Raamdeo Agrawal:  The biggest thing is globally there is a complete surge of field, I mean the $13 trillion is below, ten-year papers are below and now government bond issuances is at negative interest rates. I do not know who is going to buy it. I mean you had 2% yield, you buy into it and it goes into negative that is one thing but actually issuance at negative so you are saying that fundamentally I am not going to get any money out of it. So I do not think any pension fund and all they will be buying into them. I do not know who buys that. So there is a massive surge for the yield so that is why you see all the bond issuances even from say like masala bond, it got subscribed by four times. You saw yesterday one housing finance company did, there is a mad rush for the bonds so this is what is happening. Now the overflow of that negative interest rate money is coming into emerging market and it is going to become, it is going to intensify.    ET Now: Those have been okay. But if I look at the environment, zero interest rate regime has been there for about 12 to 18 months now. The fact that central banks are printing money that is happening from half a decade now. But despite such a benign liquidity environment, emerging markets as an asset class in last five years they have underperformed. It is not that all the global money has come to India and it has gone to other emerging markets. So I buy your liquidity argument but for the moment it is not showing in asset prices.   Raamdeo Agrawal:  Yes so now environment is benign that does not mean that money will automatically flow. Now we have to create a conducive environment for that money to flow into equities or emerging market equities particularly India. So here what are the factors which can change the trajectory of earnings. So you have terrific monsoon after three years, it is so intense, it is really supercharge monsoon; then you have...I hope that will have impact on the inflation with a gap of two-three months. Then, all the policy paralysis of 10 years have been all cleared up. I think this is a last piece of legislation.     There is nothing left on the table of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha which is a huge achievement. I mean yesterday finance minister cut cake for, I mean very unusual. It is like a new birthday for him. So it is such an event so it is not about the act, the issue is now that the whole country has come up to push the legislation. So my sense is that there are too many good things, so market most likely is not going to go down much.     Upside I do not know because unless earnings come or something else comes in it is going to be tough. I mean somebody starts buying madly which is not looking to be like that. But the companies which are doing well there would not be any dearth, in fact there will be violence to buy those companies whichever shows earnings growth. You might have seen this, wherever earnings surprise is there, the buying surprise is 10 times bigger than...so that is what is going to happen and that is where you have to position your portfolio ahead of time.    ET Now: It is clearly a frenzy out there but let me talk about some of the disappointments as well and you have extremely gung-ho about aviation and that also is an extension of consumption but the earnings because of the price war in the sector have disappointed the street have you changed your thought on aviation because you have been a large propagator of aviation?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  Yes, so I am also learning and I am as much disappointed. In fact I wanted 50 crore more than 640 which was last year's number it came exactly 50 crore lower. So clearly I mean we do not have the grip of how the industry works.    ET Now: When that position giving you sleepless nights, are you thinking your investment thesis is still intact?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  See when you run a portfolio of 18 companies one company or two companies will always disappoint, there will be same day we had Bajaj Finance which went up by 10% and same day we had a 10% in Reliance so it does not matter. So that as far as the management, this happens, Infosys went down by 10%...    ET Now: No, no I am not talking about the price action I am talking about when you invest but you have always explain to our viewers is that you have an investment framework which is in place and once that investment framework is broken, statement is not working what I am going to understand?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  We had expected certain growth QGLP, quality still stays where it is, G is not turn out to be the way we had thought but it is only quarter okay, numbers are not that bad. The issue is that when you compare with last year's Q4 which is 15% net margin this year it is 12% net margin so 12% net margin is damn good but it is not as good as what we are thinking with 25% more traffic..    ET Now: But you still have conviction and you are going to wait it out is what you are saying?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  Yes, we are going to wait it out but the super conviction which I had that definitely has diminished.    ET Now: What about the other one, Bajaj Finance I mean I know you must be extremely smiling with the stock jumped up 10% but does it seem like this frenzy is not really good or I mean is it getting toppish anywhere or do you think this is now when the story has just started?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  As I said do not come in front of running truck, this is a huge truck which is going at a full speed, do not apply this valuation, let the truck slowdown or let it come to stop then we will think of getting out. Let the growth phase...    ET Now: But has the truck caught speed?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  Yes, it is at a speed, it is speeding for last five-six years, three years-four years so right now the truck is at full speed do not come in front of it let the this corporate is well managed it has big opportunity and it will slowdown I mean it can go on at this pace. When it will slows down then that we will take our call.    ET Now: You may avoid talking about your own firm obviously so but the diversified financial companies which have this broking arm to themselves which was earlier a very integral part now a small part because a lot of other things have come to the fall the reason I am asking this to you is because you had a management the other day saying that the total AUM of the NBFCs is just about scratching the surface of the AUM that banks have and they have a long way to go do you think this growth rate for the other NBFCs also is just about starting and people should not worry about the kind of run up that we have seen there?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  See you are saying that some of the NBFCs are growing very rapidly.    ET Now: No, they have run up a lot the valuations that are being assigned to them on a price to book are sky high right now. Is that a worry or do you think the earnings will catch up?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  See I do not worry about the companies which I do not have in my portfolio and very clear I mean there are lot of, see every company is not in the same boat. There are some companies which have manipulated, stock might have been manipulated, the earnings may not sustain, it might be a low quality and high growth. I do not look at low quality high growth, I look at high quality high growth so there the multiples can be very high and see like at one point of time Gruh Finance we have made lot of money in that and the price to book went to 14, I think still it must be 10 or something like 10-11 okay it must be, lot of companies they struggle to get PE multiple of 14, this company was trading at 14 price to book I think this one be the most..    ET Now: Because they never diluted.   Raamdeo Agrawal:  Yes, no no it is not about that only see look at they earned 30% ROE. They pay out 30%, they grow at 30 I mean they deserve to get 30, 35, 40 PE but market does over does in terms of their exuberance and they took it to may be little higher may be 45-50 PE and that give that 12-14 price to book. So clearly for that they are waiting for that one year cooling off because earnings are growing so value keeps growing at a pace, price does not have to because for value to grow earnings have to grow, earnings can grow at a particular some sensible way 25%, 30%, 40% that itself is very tough to sustain but price I mean somebody comes, some mad guy comes and says that I want a $100 million worth of stuff in one day you shoot up by 20%. So you can what company takes one year to grow you can grow it in the marketplace in one day.    ET Now: I am just wondering, is there a temporary mismatch for United Spirits as well because that is again I think a theme that you probably used to like sometime...   Raamdeo Agrawal:  But I still like...    ET Now: Yes you know somebody is disliking because it is trading at fresh lows, what has gone wrong here to you in mind or what is something that the market is...?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  See you must always figure out difference between the value growth and price growth. What is the troublesome is not to your liking is the price is coming down that is but value is going up, value is going see what the management can do they can take all kinds of right action and they can whatever premiumisation they are doing, whatever volumes they are pushing, whatever brand positioning they are doing, innovation the new brands which is happening, everything is happening but market had in their own wisdom they had taken it to Rs 4000 so that is coming down to whatever wherever it is the right price at a right value. But on a 10, 15, 20 years henceforth I see this franchise to be very very strong and very rewarding to the investors.    ET Now: How you position within IT wherein Infy has disappointed on the other hand HCL Technologies is emerging as the winner when it comes to earnings or do you still find comfort in the midcaps the Tata Elxsi's of the world which could be a large cap sooner or later I do not know?   Raamdeo Agrawal:  See even large portfolios is what happens is you like something, you dub the story, you work with the management, work with the spreadsheet and then you take a position. Say like Indigo we took a position now things then the story starts happening and stories 80% time it works around the way you thought, 20% time it does not work so then you have to rethink what to do, then you reposition the portfolio but the broader theme does not change pharma, IT, consumer, private sector banks, good NBFCs or some specialised monopoly companies that is how the portfolio looks...   