India Inc biggies like Tata Group, Godrej Industries look to ease Maharashtra drought crisis15 Apr, 2016 03:47 AM ISTAs the threat of a water shortage looms larger with each passing year, India Inc’s biggies aren’t just focusing on improving their own consumption efficiency.#India Inc biggies like Tata Group, Godrej Industries look to ease Maharashtra drought crisis#MUMBAI: As the threat of a water shortage looms larger with each passing year, India Inc's biggies aren't just focusing on improving their own consumption efficiency. The Tata Group, Godrej Industries, Bisleri, Hindustan Unilever, SAB Miller India and RPG Enterprises have become increasingly active in helping to ease the crisis in drought-prone regions.  Last year-end, a team representing Tata Motors, Tata Power, Indian Hotels, Tata Consulting Engineers and Tata Communications headed to the drought-affected districts of the Marathwada region in Maharashtra to conduct a needs assessment survey, interacting with villagers and senior government officers to get a first-hand understanding of the on-ground situation.  The team then decided to adopt an integrated approach towards relief work to be carried out in three districts of the region — Latur,  Beed and Osmanabad.  About 15,000 villages in Maharashtra, a majority of them in Latur, Beed and  Osmanabad districts, are in the grip of an acute water shortage. Below-average rainfall for two consecutive monsoons has depleted water levels in reservoirs, affecting irrigation and drinking water supplies and impairing planting of crops and electricity generation.  Rallis India is running an ongoing Jal Dhan programme in Beed, Latur, Akola and Chiplun in Maharashtra and Voltas has rolled out its Drought Response Programme across Osmanabad and  Latur districts, focusing on supplying water tankers. Tata Technologies, Tata AutoComp Systems and Tata Toyo Radiators have planned to repair and construct rainwater harvesting structures in the villages of Osmanabad district.  In addition,  Tata Motors has provided tanks to store drinking water in remote villages of Raigad, Pune and Palghar districts of the state through the Sumant Moolgaokar Development Foundation.  "Water conservation is an area one should look into and bring under the sphere of influence of  India Inc. It is a real problem today and will worsen with time," said Marico Industries chairman Harsh Mariwala. "Corporates along with the government of India have a role to play in this."   In November-December, Godrej Industries started three projects on watershed management in different parts of Maharashtra, including the Marathwada region, under its sustainability strategy called Good & Green.  The group, in collaboration with the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, plans to take up watershed management programmes in other states.  "The watershed management programme will become a big area of focus for us. We have seen that it gives a big boost to rural livelihoods," said Vikas Goswami, head of Good & Green at Godrej Industries. "In the next three years, some of the current dry areas will turn into green and the water will be available even in summer."  Watershed management includes land use and water management practices to protect and improve the quality of water and other natural resources.  Bottled water company Bisleri International, which undertakes rainwater harvesting every year, constructed four new check dams in Vikramgad in Palghar district of Maharashtra and repaired and renovated 10 old check dams in the tribal villages of Valsad district in Gujarat last year. These dams help store 285 million litres of water, benefitting 14 villages and 192 farmers. 