McDonald’s goes on a healthy diet, reduces sodium in its mayonnaise and fries05 Aug, 2016 02:41 AM IST“In India, we will continue to work closely with our suppliers and industry experts toward achieving our global vision,” a McDonald’s India spokesperson said.#McDonald’s goes on a healthy diet, reduces sodium in its mayonnaise and fries#  NEW DELHI: McDonald's, the world's largest fast food chain, is junking artificial preservatives across its products in India besides further reducing sodium in its mayonnaise and fries, and calories in sauces, in an attempt to bring in health conscious consumers amid slowing sales.     The move follows a global policy the burger chain had announced on Tuesday. "In India, we will continue to work closely with our suppliers and industry experts toward achieving our global vision," a McDonald's India spokesperson said.     While globally, the firm said it is removing antibiotics from chicken, it has started the process in India. Its suppliers are now allowed to administer government-approved antibiotics only for treating sick chicken, an industry insider said.      Globally, McDonald's announced that it will replace corn syrup in hamburger buns with sugar and eliminate artificial preservatives from products such as chicken nuggets and several breakfast items. In India, it had kicked of the process of shedding weight last year by reducing sodium content across its mayonnaise sauces, buns and nuggets by 10% and in its fries by 20%. Another move has been to reduce oil content in sauces from 67% to 25%."We are committed to offer improved nutrition choices to make improvements through reformulation in our menu," the company spokesperson said.     McDonald's was among the first global western style quick service chains to enter the country two decades back. It has 400-plus stores in the country now, operating through a centralised supply chain and product development cell.McDonald's move towards healthier menu is in line with changing customer preferences worldwide.     The US-based chain's second quarter earnings reported late last month fell short of analyst expectations both in its home market and globally. Same-store sales in the US were up 1.8%, way short of street estimates of 3.4%. Across global markets too, it saw same-store sales up by 3.1%, below analyst expectations of 3.6%.     In India, people are eating out less and almost all quick service restaurant chains including Yum! Restaurants-operated KFC and Pizza Hut, and Jubilant FoodWorks-run Domino's, have been posting low to midsingle digit same-store sales.  