NSA Ajit Doval expected to object to China Pakistan Economic Corridor14 Apr, 2016 01:44 AM ISTNational Security Adviser Ajit Doval, during his strategic dialogue with China next week in Beijing, is expected to object to China Pakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC.#NSA Ajit Doval expected to object to China Pakistan Economic Corridor#NEW DELHI: National Security Adviser  Ajit Doval, during his strategic dialogue with  China next week in Beijing, is expected to object to China Pakistan Economic Corridor, or CPEC.  Follow @ETDefence Twitter handle for comprehensive coverage on other buzzing Defence stories  The CPEC runs through Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Even as Beijing claims this is purely a commercial project, India believes three divisions of the Chinese Army are stationed in the  PoK part of the CEPC, setting off alarm bells in New Delhi.  Doval was likely to object to the $46-billion project, besides China's veto in the UN against India's call to ban Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist  Masood Azhar, people familiar with the developments indicated. China is undertaking several infrastructure projects in the PoK, including hydel-power plants, that India has objected to in the past.  Doval's assertions would come in the backdrop of Pak Army Chief Gen Raheel Sharif 's allegation that India was seeking to undermine Chinese investments in the CPEC. "I must highlight that India has openly challenged this development initiative," Gen Sharif said at a conference in Gwadar Port, a part of CPEC, on Monday.  Despite attempts to sabotage the CPEC, Gen Sharif said, the project would become operational soon and the first cargo shipment from China will reach the Gwadar deep seaport this year. Sharif described the CPEC as a corridor of peace and prosperity and said it was a grand manifestation of the deep-rooted ties between China and Pakistan.  India had made its objections clear to China, including before PM Modi's visit to Beijing last year, about construction and investment in the CPEC that runs through the PoK. But that objection did not make any impact on either Beijing or Islamabad. Doval will utilise the opportunity to reiterate India's concerns amid reports of domestic objections within Pakistan against the CPEC.  