PM Narendra Modi personally led meetings on how to push GST ahead of Rajya Sabha clearance05 Aug, 2016 02:20 AM ISTSenior officials, who spoke off record, told ETthat the PM had a “detailed discussion” with finance ministry mandarins on Tuesday evening.#PM Narendra Modi personally led meetings on how to push GST ahead of Rajya Sabha clearance#  NEW DELHI: A day before the Rajya Sabha okayed the GST Bill, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had personally led strategy meetings on how to push the tax reform ahead after clearance from the Upper House.     The PM, meeting with key officials, went over everything from identifying state assemblies that can be marshalled for a quick vote for GST to buying hardware and training tax personnel.     Senior officials, who spoke off record, told ETthat the PM had a "detailed discussion" with finance ministry mandarins on Tuesday evening.     The entire GST process was laid out step-by-step, and the PM asked "searching questions" about every major procedure the tax reform will have to clear. Officials said the PM's deadline for 50% of state assemblies clearing the first GST Bill is September, and that he is "bullish" about this deadline being met.     The PM fixed the September deadline by working backwards from the April 2017 launch of GST. "The PM discussed everything in detail...like identifying 15 state legislatures that the central government can work with for a September approval of the Constitution amendment... and which states have two legislative Houses and what complications might ensue from there," said one official familiar with the matter. Modi was also asked several questions about GST's implementation.     His point was that the government must identify potential trouble spots from now on and take pre-emptive action. "The PM enquired about the current position of Goods and Services Tax Network (GSTN). He asked whether a mock run of GSTN is on," another official said.    FEAR OF CAG   "The PM enquired about hardware purchase orders for efficient and seamless rolling out of GST.     When officials cited the fear of CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General) over placing orders before legislation was put in place, the PM suggested them to not go slow on hardware acquisition," this official added. Modi dwelt at length over IT requirements of states and training of tax administration manpower for the actual rollout of GST.     A senior tax official said: "The PM suggested that the Centre should not hesitate to offer training to state governments' tax administrators... he suggested the Centre be proactive on this.     He even suggested the government look at giving training to merchants so that they can comply with GST provisions." "The PM wants an April 2017 rollout and in that (Tuesday evening) meeting he made it very clear he will keep a close eye on the process," another official said.  