Raghuram Rajan has just turned your smartphone into a bank, here is how you can use it12 Apr, 2016 10:24 AM ISTToday, if you want to pay someone, you need to add him as beneficiary. You need the IFSC code, A/C no, branch etc. The RBI app does away with all this.#Raghuram Rajan has just turned your smartphone into a bank, here is how you can use it#Smartphones are not just useful for social media, videos and taking selfies. They will now become an important part of your daily life by doubling up as a portal for making payments, sending and receiving money etc.  Ten of the country's biggest banks along with the  Reserve Bank of India have just launched a  Unified Payments Interface (UPI) — a mega app that will sit on your smart phone once you have downloaded it and dramatically reduce the cost and time taken for making simple payments. What's more, you can use this app to pay for any transaction below Rs 1 lakh, even something as low as Rs 50.  The biggest impact of this app will be on third-party payments. Today, if you want to pay someone, you need to add him or her as a beneficiary. You need the  IFSC code and bank account number and branch etc. The  UPI app does away with all this. All you need is the receiver's unique ID. Open the UPI app, select the amount to be paid, add the unique ID of the beneficiary and select 'send'. The app will ask for a mobile pin to authenticate the payment after which it is done.  This can be useful not just in making regular payments but also in transactions between friends. You have just had a drink at the bar and want to share the bill. One person pays and the others just transfer the money to his account. No need to use cash, no need for the IFSC code and all that.  Remittances will also become easier and the same process applies here as well. Cash on delivery, the big driver behind the ecommerce boom, will probably die a natural death for people with smartphones. They can use the UPI app to pay after receiving the goods. All they need to know is the unique ID of the ecommerce firm. The buyer can also scan a QR code that the delivery boy carries through his UPI app or pay directly to the unique ID of the delivery boy.  How can a customer use UPI  1. He will need to have a bank account and a smart phone.  2. Download the UPI app of a bank from PlayStore  3. Connect the bank account  4. Create a Unique ID  5. Generate a mobile pin  6. Also link Aadhaar number  Only 10 banks are part of this now but others are expected to join. Another big feature of UPI is that you can use any bank's systems to transfer money or make payments. You don't need an account with that specific bank to be able to use its UPI app. All you need to do is to download that bank's UPI app, register yourself and make the payment.  