SAD-BJP combine banks on Parkash Singh Badal's charisma and achievements in Punjab15 Apr, 2016 01:58 AM ISTBadal senior is considered a good administrator who keeps himself posted through district magistrates and district police chiefs.#SAD-BJP combine banks on Parkash Singh Badal's charisma and achievements in Punjab#NEW DELHI: Strong anti-incumbency in the wake of a decade long rule, the rising graph of Aam Admi Party, growing drug menace and unemployment in the state have led Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP combine to build their campaign strategy for the Punjab Assembly elections in December-January around octogenarian chief minister Parkash Singh Badal's charisma and achievements.  Sources in  SAD and BJP said there is serious concern in the NDA camp over the increasing political footprint of Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Admi Party in Punjab and the alliance sees the new party as its main political adversary with Congress relegated to third position. Ironically, the appointment of former chief minister Captain  Amarinder Singh as the Congress Punjab unit chief has enthused the SAD-BJP. "Before the Captain's elevation, it was becoming a Delhi election like scenario for us as SAD-BJP would end up in a direct fight with AAP. But now there is renewed hope for us. The more the Congress is strengthened in Punjab the better for NDA as Congress growth will be at the expense of AAP," a SAD leader said. While SAD is strong in the rural areas, BJP has a reasonably good presence in urban constituencies.  The alliance is worried as Punjab usually votes out the ruling party and this trend was broken by the NDA in the last elections. Winning the third election in a row could be a tall order for the two parties.  Badal senior, who will turn 89 in December, is the best bet for the SAD-BJP alliance, according to both parties. In a situation similar to that of DMK in Tamil Nadu where  M Karunanidhi, now 93, is still battling to bring his party to power, Parkash Singh Badal is SAD-BJP's last hope.  "Sukhbir Badal is not even a patch on his father. But Badal senior has a lot of goodwill. Though he cannot travel much now due to his advanced age, he is holding 'Sangat Darshan' where he visits a village and invites people from neighbouring areas to meet him and air their grievances," a SAD leader said.    Badal senior is considered a good administrator who keeps himself posted through district magistrates and district police chiefs. However, rampant corruption, the disenchantment among the youth due to growing employment and the drug menace that is affecting the local youth population can be SAD-BJP's Achilles Heel. SAD will offer sops for the farmers in the coming days, sources said. There is also likelihood of doubling the old age pension from Rs 400 to Rs 800 in the coming days. The crop insurance scheme announced by the Centre, promotion of new technology in irrigation and farming during SAD rule, are other ways in which the ruling combine will try to win over the voters.  However, deputy chief minister  Sukhbir Badal reportedly does not enjoy a good image. The charges against his brother-in-law Bikram Singh Majithia are also a weak spot for the Akalis. Parkash Badal's son-in-law Adesh Pratap Kairon enjoys a good reputation and is seen as one who would mitigate the bad press against SAD.  