Wiser after Lalit Modi snub, ED weighs Vijay Mallya options15 Apr, 2016 01:12 AM ISTED, which wants to question Mallya in connection with loans given to Kingfisher Airlines, is contemplating asking the Mumbai court to issue a non-bailable warrant against him.#Wiser after Lalit Modi snub, ED weighs Vijay Mallya options#NEW DELHI: The  Enforcement Directorate is divided over its next steps and is weighing its options after  Vijay Mallya ignored three summons to appear before the agency, and is preparing a foolproof case for seeking revocation of his diplomatic passport.  ED, which wants to question Mallya in connection with loans given to Kingfisher Airlines, is contemplating asking the Mumbai court to issue a non-bailable warrant against him or issue summons to ensure his presence in court. The agency has sought legal opinion on the matter and may approach the Mumbai court in the next couple of days, a government official told ET.  The development comes a day after ED wrote to the ministry of external affairs to revoke Mallya's diplomatic passport. This time the agency is being careful because it wants to avoid a repeat of the  Lalit Modi case, when a court overturned MEA's revocation of the former Indian Premier League commissioner's passport.  Mallya, who is wanted for questioning in connection with Rs 900 crore of loans taken from a consortium of banks led by  IDBI Bank, left for the UK on March 2.  ED first summoned Mallya to appear on March 18 and set a fresh date of April 2 after he sought more time. The businessman again sought time till May but the agency extended the deadline only by a week to April 9. Mallya, in his communication to the agency, claimed that he has already given statements to the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Serious Fraud Investigation Office. He also cited ongoing legal proceedings in the Supreme Court on a settlement of loans, a senior official said, requesting anonymity.  ED ruled out the possibility of Mallya's appearance through video conferencing. "The summons issued under money laundering charges asked for personal appearance and not distant appearance. The statement given by a suspect needs to be signed by him, without which it cannot be submitted to the court after investigations," added an official.  On the request for revocation of the diplomatic passport, authoritative sources told ET they want a proper directive and additional steps are being taken in consultation with ED and the Department of Legal Affairs to make a fool-proof case to avoid embarrassment.  MEA had revoked Lalit Modi's passport on ED's directive. 