​Race for Gujarat CM’s post: Nitin Patel may replace Anandiben Patel05 Aug, 2016 01:04 AM ISTThe health minister was in the race for chief ministership even when Narendra Modi quit the post after becoming the prime minister in 2014.#​Race for Gujarat CM’s post: Nitin Patel may replace Anandiben Patel#  NEW DELHI: Gujarat's health minister Nitin Patel is likely to be chosen as the next chief minister of the state, in a meeting of BJP MLAs on Friday in the presence of party chief Amit Shah and the two central observers. BJP sources said the party is moving towards a consensus on Nitin Patel's candidature. While Shah's first choice is reportedly Gujarat BJP unit chief Vijay Rupani, there was no agreement on his name as outgoing CM Anandiben Patel had expressed strong reservations. Rupani has himself said on Wednesday that he is not in the CM race.     What has gone in favour of Nitin Patel is that he is a Patidar leader who was virtually the number two in Anandiben's Cabinet. The health minister was in the race for chief ministership even when Narendra Modi quit the post after becoming the prime minister in 2014. However, Modi chose Anandiben as his successor.     As per the norm, Anandiben would propose Nitin Patel's name in the meeting of party legislators. Many BJP MLAs in Gujarat have reportedly suggested that Shah should be made the next chief minister if the party wants to deal effectively with the Patidar agitation, the controversy over atrocities against Dalits in Una, and the growing slide in the party's popularity as seen in the drubbing it got in the civic elections a few months back.     Some MLAs may try to propose Shah's name but the central leadership wants him to continue as party chief. Union minister M Venkaiah Naidu reiterated his statement on Thursday that Shah will stay as BJP chief as his services are needed here.     He has led the BJP to victories in assembly polls and would do so in the electoral battles ahead, Naidu said. BJP central observers — Union minister Nitin Gadkari and general secretary Saroj Pande — will be reaching Ahmedabad on Friday to attend the meeting of party MLAs. Secretary (organisation) V Satish and BJP's Gujarat in-charge Dinesh Sharma are already there and have held discussions with party legislators.  