​Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s patience, FM Arun Jaitley's skills led to GST success05 Aug, 2016 12:51 AM IST"The prime minister was looking for an opportunity to convey the message that the nation was one on the economic integration issue."#​Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s patience, FM Arun Jaitley's skills led to GST success#  NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi's poise for meeting a long-term objective and finance minister Arun Jaitley's managerial skills led to the successful passage of the Constitution amendment bill on GST in the Rajya Sabha, according to top establishment sources.     "The prime minister was looking for an opportunity to convey the message that the nation was one on the economic integration issue. GST was the most potent weapon to demonstrate it," said a top government functionary.     "The prime minister was watching GST not as a game of numbers. His approach was that this was one legislation that must get unanimous support of the nation," the source said, playing down the perception of delay over pushing the legislation in the last two years.     The source reasoned that the PM had the larger objective to transform the tax administration for which the wait was worth.     As the dynamics of events moved towards unanimity, it took finance minister Arun Jaitley's managerial skills to stitch up the widest possible consensus, a top ruling establishment source said on Thursday. "It has been a combination of the PM and the FM acting behind the scenes, resulting in this historic feat," the source, privy to the developments that led to the passage of the Constitution amendment bill in the Rajya Sabha, said.     "It displayed the great managerial capability of the finance minister. It may have gone unnoticed but he visited Kolkata to humour Mamata Banerjee, had two meetings with Nitish Kumar, met Chandrababu Naidu thrice... several such efforts took place behind the scenes to provide the momentum for consensus," said a top ruling establishment functionary, underlining the role of the FM in stitching the consensus for eventual passage of the Constitution amendment bill in a House where the government was woefully short of numbers. Government sources added that Jaitley leveraged his political capital with leaders of smaller and regional parties to get them on board to avoid last-minute surprises.     "The prime minister was ready to be driven by a desire of a situation of unanimity and not victory of numbers," confided the source about the PM's approach.  