
7 things to know about Skoda's new SUV
#Skoda Kodiaq in India? Seven things to know about the SUV#

  Skoda is all set to introduce
  Kodiaq
  in India next year and it will take on the likes of
  Toyota Fortuner
  , the
  Ford Endeavour
  and the Chevrolet Trailblazer. Here are seven must-knows about the SUV from the Czech automakers.
  

Design


  Based on the Vision S concept which was first showcased at the 2016 Geneva Motor Show, the Kodiaq features a lot of sharp character lines and crystalline elements. One can expect the SUV to boast a design theme similar to the one seen on its sibling, the
  Superb
  .
  


    Space
  


  Reading the utility aspect well, Skoda has built the Kodiaq as a seven-seater, unlike its concept, which was a six-seater. Despite the three rows, the boot space of the SUV stands at a decent 225 litres. And if one is not satisfied with the space, the last two rows can be downed for a massively liberated space of 2005 litres.
  

Dimensions


  The Skoda Kodiaq is a big SUV, 4.7 metres long and 1.88 metres broad. However, its rival, the Ford Endeavour is even longer and wider, with dimensions reading 4.9 metres and 1.86 metres.
  


Photo courtesy: skoda-auto.com



    Engines
  


  Globally, there would be many engines on offer, but for India, one can expect Skoda to offer the familiar 2.0-litre TDi mill. The gearbox is expected to be the same as the one in the diesel Superb - six-speed dual-clutch automatic. Internationally, the Kodiaq is expected to be offered with 1.4-litre and 2.0-litre TSi petrol motors. Whether these engines will make their way to India is yet to be known.
  


    Off-road
    


  There is an 'off-road' button in the Kodiaq, as confirmed by Skoda. One can assume that pressing the aforementioned button would call for a raise in the ride height and retuning of the throttle response. However, nothing's clear from the automaker's side.
  


    Technology
    


  Just like every other Skoda, the Kodiaq is expected to come laden with features that provide comfort and convenience - and all of it tinged with the technological wizards. The range-topping SUV variant is likely to boast of in-car WiFi, a touchscreen infotainment system with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto, leather upholstery, and a wireless charger.
  



    Photo courtesy: skoda-auto.com
    


Price


  With the Ford Endeavour already in the market and the next-generation Fortuner's launch just around the corner, one can safely say that the tussle of full-sized SUVs has already started. Having said that, Skoda is likely to attach a premium price tag to it - somewhere in the range of Rs 25 and 30 lakh, depending on the variant.
  

Bonus trivia:
  The Kodiaq is named after an Alaskan bear.
  

