
'Apple's iPhone marketshare falls 35% in India'
#Apple's iPhone marketshare falls by 35% in India: Report#

  BOSTON: Apple is betting big on India. But it seems that the company has a tough task at hand. According to a report from Strategy Analytics, the company shipped 800,000 smartphones in India in Q2 2016, this compares to 1.2 million smartphones it shipped during the same quarter last year.
  

  Says, Woody Oh, director at Strategy Analytics, added, "Apple iOS fell 35% annually and shipped 0.8 million smartphones in India in Q2 2016. Apple's smartphone marketshare has halved from 4% to just 2% in India during the past year."
  

  According to him, it's time Apple works on iPhone's pricing in the country as cheaper devices will surely help boost sales. "Apple iOS will need to reduce iPhone pricing to cheaper levels, attract more operator subsidies and enlarge its retail presence through Apple stores or online channels if it wants to regrow significantly in the future," adds Oh.
  

  This surely is not a good news for the Cupertino giant who is planning to open its company-owned stores in India. At its recent earnings call, CEO Tim Cook said, "In the first three quarters of this fiscal year, our iPhone sales in India were up 51 per cent year-on-year. We are looking forward to opening retail stores in India down the road and we see huge potential for that vibrant country," Cook told analysts during an earnings call on Tuesday. Apple's fiscal year 2016 runs from September 27, 2015 to September 24, 2016."
  

  During the call,
  BACKGROUNDXIndia shines for Apple as China leads global dip<p>Apple CEO Tim Cook showered praise on the India operations as he announced quarterly results at the company’s headquarters in the US. (AP Photo)<br></p>NEW DELHI: India has once again proven to be a bright spot for Apple. The American tech giant is enjoying a fastpaced growth here at a time when worldwide business is slowing down due to reversal in the China region, the most-critical market for the maker of iPhones.Apple CEO Tim Cook showered praise on the India operations as he announced quarterly results at the company's headquarters in the US. "India is now one of our fastest-growing markets. In the first three quarters of this year, our iPhone sales in India were up 51% year-onyear," Cook said in an investor call after the results.Worldwide sales of iPhone were down 15% at 40.4 million units, while Apple's profit in the quarter fell 27% to $7.8 billion and revenue skid by 15% to $42.4 billion. Greater China region saw numbers go down by 33%."We're looking forward to opening retail stores in India and we see huge potential for that vibrant country," the Apple CEO said, but did not provide timelines. Apple has also managed to get a relaxation from the government over local sourcing norms.It would still be unfair to compare India and China just on growth rates as India contributes just 1% to Apple's revenues, while the share of China is estimated at nearly 25%. The company is also clearing inventory in China, which contributed to the decline.Cook has been optimistic on India and feels it could emerge as "next China" for Apple as numbers move up. The Indian government is keen that Apple looks at local assembly operations in India as its volumes grow.  RELATED STORIESCook said that he was encouraged by the prospects in India+
  and China during his recent visit to these countries. The company said that iPhone sales during the April-June quarter grew in double digits in key markets, including India, Japan, Turkey, Brazil, Canada and Sweden.
  

  Cook also reiterated that Apple has launched a centre to support Indian developers creating applications for its iOS operating system and has opened an office in Hyderabad to accelerate map development.
  

  Currently, India is the world's third-largest smartphone market after China and US. Smartphone shipments grew 19% annually to reach 31 million units in India during the second quarter of 2016.
  


