
Chandela, Paul out of women's 10m air rifle event
#India Rio 2016: Apurvi Chandela, Ayonika Paul out of women's 10m air rifle event#

  RIO DE JANEIRO: Indian shooters
  BACKGROUNDXKnow your Rio Olympics athlete: Apurvi ChandelaHighlightsApurvi Chandela was the first Indian woman to qualify for the Rio Games.She was noticed after winning a gold medal at the National Championship in 2012.In 2016, she broke the world record for the finals round by shooting 211.2 to win gold. Name: Apurvi ChandelaAge: 23Born: Jaipur, RajasthanHeight: 1.56mDiscipline (sport): ShootingEvent: 10m air rifleCurrent ranking: 25 Though she made a mark during her first year on the senior circuit (2012) when she won the gold medal at the National Championships, Apurvi's career took a dramatic upswing in 2014 when at the Commonwealth Games at Glasgow she won gold in the 10m air rifle event with a games record score in qualification and in the finals. Also in 2014, she won gold and bronze at the 35th Intershoot competition held in the Netherlands. She was the first Indian woman to qualify for the Rio Games by virtue of a bronze medal at the World Cup in Changwon, South Korea last year. It was also her first World Cup medal. Later in 2015, Apurvi won a silver medal at the World Cup Final in Munich. In 2016, she broke the world record for the finals round by shooting 211.2 to win gold. Major achievements- Broke World Record in 10m Air Rifle finals event- Bronze - ISSF World Cup, Changwon 2015- Gold - Commonwealth Games, Glasgow 2014- Gold - National Championships, Delhi 2012- Gold and Bronze - Intershoot competition, Netherlands 2014   RELATED STORIESBrazil unveils 13 posters for Rio OlympicsAtanu Das selected for Rio Olympics3 more athletes qualify for Rio OlympicsBan all Russians from Rio Olympics: WADAApurvi Chandela+
  and
  BACKGROUNDXAyonika Paul gears up for the Rio OlympicsPANVEL (Maharashtra): Indian shooter Ayonika Paul, who will represent the country at the Rio Olympics, on Monday said she thrives under pressure and is now focusing on polishing her technique ahead of the Games.Ayonika, a second year ME student at the Pillai College of Engineering, will compete in the 10 meters air rifle event at the Olympics."They (preparations for the Olympics) are just as planned, what I had planned before on the books and it is according to that and I am happy about it. We are quite experienced right now and it's all about how we handle it (pressure). And for me, I always love to play with a bit of pressure. Whatever preparations had to be done, are done, right now I am just polishing my technique," Ayonika told reporters here.The Indian shooter, who won the silver medal at the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, was on Monday felicitated by the Mahatma Education Society's Pillai Group of Institutions here, around 50km from Mumbai."The feelings on that day (When she had secured her Olympic quota on January 29), it was all about that moment when I qualified, that time I was emotion-less because, I knew I will be winning the quota because I had put in so much of hard-work."But that after I won and when everybody came and hugged me, that finally I came to know that after four years I am getting it (to play in the Olympics)," she said.She had bagged the silver medal in the Asia Qualifying Round in New Delhi to qualify for Olympics which is scheduled to take place at Rio de Janeiro from August 5 to 21. RELATED STORIESAtanu Das selected for Rio Olympics3 more athletes qualify for Rio OlympicsBan all Russians from Rio Olympics: WADABasketball academy releases booklet on Rio Olympics, wishes Indian playersAyonika Paul+
  were way off the mark in the 10m Air Rifle Women's Qualification, finishing way behind the leaders to bow out of the competition in the
  BACKGROUNDXRio Olympics Day One1.Here are the Playing XIs

		A look at how the Men in Blue lineup vs Ireland in their first clash at #Rio2016, LIVE on Star Sports & DD1! #Hockey pic.twitter.com/AhEFGNjuCp
	&mdash; Hockey India (@TheHockeyIndia) August 6, 20162.First gold medal goes to shooter Virginia Thrasher  in women's 10m air rifleALERT: First gold medal of Rio 2016 goes to US shooter Virginia Thrasher in women's 10m air rifle. China's Li Du and Yi Siling clinch silver and bronze respectively.3.The Indian hockey team has a rich Olympics history4.Next up: India vs IrelandIndian hockey team is set to kickstart their campaign against Ireland in a few minutes.5.Water Polo updateThe men's water polo Group A clash between Serbia and Hungary has ended in a 13-13 draw. Both teams return with a point each.6.It's even stevens at half-time

#Hockey at #Rio2016 @ArgFieldHockey v @oranjehockey @Rio2016 @Olympics #SambaSticks Results: https://t.co/5Klj4VjfLx pic.twitter.com/XSMat8y6Mw
	&mdash; FIH (@FIH_Hockey) August 6, 20167.The more you know...Canadian swimmer Santo Condorelli has a bizarre pre-race ritual: Flipping the bird (showing the middle finger) to his father! Will he repeat his antics at the Rio Olympics too?8.That's quite a scenery9.Enterprising!

		We have our own combined gymnastic, track & field and aquatic complex with a built in athletes' village. #Rio2016 pic.twitter.com/0rfrhZG4UH
	&mdash; Darren Cannan (@Darrencannan) August 6, 201610.Road race updateDutchman Tom Dumoulin quit the Olympic men's road race shortly after the start alongside the Copacabana in Rio on Saturday. Dumoulin lasted around 10km of the 237.5km of the race which winds along the coast before taking the peloton into the coastal mountains. He is considered a contender for gold in the time trial which takes place on Wednesday.11.For those who have just joined usIndia has had a mixed morning so far. Rower Dattu Baban Bhokanal entered the quarterfinals in men's single sculls while shooters Ayonika Paul and Apurvi Chandela put up a flop show to crash out of the 10m air rifle final.12.The Rio 2016 field hockey opener between Argentina and Netherlands is underway

@ArgFieldHockey ready to take on @oranjehockey in the 1st game of #Hockey at #Rio2016 #SambaSticks pic.twitter.com/NsDX2OKFsI
	&mdash; FIH (@FIH_Hockey) August 6, 201613.US women's water polo coach Adam Krikorian has left the team to be with his family after one of his two older brothers died. Krikorian coached the US to their first Olympic gold medal in women's water polo at the London Games. The team is favored to win again in Rio de Janeiro.14.FYI

#ICYMI here is a map of the course #rio2016 #RoadCycling pic.twitter.com/5VmzW2WjWz
	&mdash; UCI (@UCI_cycling) August 6, 201615."I am sure the Games will be an opportunity for our sportspersons to display their talents and test their limits in various sporting disciplines. These Games will be an opportunity for competing with participants from all over the world in the best traditions of sportsmanship. I urge the sportsperson to do their best for the glory of the nation and to promote unity and friendship with sportspersons of all participating nations."- Pranab Mukherjee, President of India16.It's a start!

#Ind Flag has started showing its bright colors in #Rio2016. Congrats Dattu Bhokanal Ji on being qualified for Rowing quarter-finals.
	&mdash; Kailash Vijayvargiya (@KailashOnline) August 6, 201617.Sun rises over Copacabana beach. BEAUTIFUL!18.Overall six events are currently underway (Rowing, Water polo, Shooting, Table Tennis, Archery and Fencing)19.RECORD ALERT: Li Du of China has created an OLYMPIC RECORD in the women's 10m air rifle event, notching up a score of 420.7 to finish at the top in qualification round.20.JUST IN: India's Ayonika Paul and Apurvi Chandela have failed to go past the qualification round. Chandela (411.6) finished 34th while Ayonika could only manage a 43rd spot with a final score of 407.21.Water Polo is also underway with Serbia taking on Hungary in a Group A clash at Maria Lenk Aquatics Centre22.Ayonika Paul and Apurvi Chandela need to be in the top eight among 53 shooters to make it to the finals. Not looking good at the moment as Paul is currently 40th and Chandela 30th spot.23.This is the view of the  Lagao Stadium - venue of rowing events24.Next up is 10m Air Rifle Women's Qualification. Two Indians - Apurvi Chandela and Ayonika Paul - are in action. China's Yi Siling won gold medal in this event at London 2012.25.ROWING: Dattu Bhokanal qualifies for the quarter-finals after he finishes third in the Heat 1 of Men's single sculls. His timing was 7:21.67.26.Here's what's in store for India today. (All timings in IST)17:00 - Rowing (Men’s single scull heats) - Dattu Baban Bhokanal

- Shooting (women’s 10m air rifle) qualification - Apurvi Chandela, Ayonika Paul

19:30 - Men's hockey: India v Ireland

- Tennis (men's doubles, round 1) - Leander Paes/Rohan Bopanna v M Matkowski/L Kubot (Poland)

19:45 - Table Tennis (women’s singles, round 1) - Mouma Das v Daniela Monteiro Dodan (Romania)

20:30 - Table Tennis (women’s singles, round 1) - Manika Batra v Katarzyna Grzybowska-Franc (Poland)

21:30 - Shooting (10m air pistol) qualification - Jitu Rai, Gurpreet Singh27.The proceedings of day one start with rowing and shooting events. Lagoa Rodrigo de Freitas will host rowing and canoe sprint events and with its revamped seven shooting ranges that now have an additional temporary one for company, the Olympic Shooting Centre is ready to welcome the top shooters.28.Click for Rio 2016 Day One Schedule29.Bittersweet start for archersIn the archery ranking round on Friday, the Indian team of Deepika Kumari Bombayla Devi and Laxmirani Majhi wilted under pressure as they finished a lowly seventh. On the other hand, Atanu Das impressed on his Olympic debut by finishing a creditable fifth in the individual section.30.Here's what they are vying forA total of 2,488 medals have been produced: 812 gold, 812 silver and 864 bronze. The medals that'll be presented at Rio are largely made with recycled materials.31.The Haryana Hurricane sends his wishes

		Best wishes to all the Indian contingent athletes who are participating at #Rio2016. Let's make #India proud! pic.twitter.com/bsxTNnuTVU
	&mdash; Kapil Dev (@therealkapildev) August 6, 201632.Here are the Indian athletes in action today33.In Pics: Relive the magical moments of the ceremony34.Brazil welcomes the world with a glittering ceremonyBrazil unfurled a vast canvas celebrating its rainforest and the creative energy of its wildly diverse population to the tune of samba, bossa nova and funk in welcoming the world on Friday to the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. In a country of great economic inequality, the opening ceremony celebrated the culture of the favelas, the slums that hang vertiginously above the renowned beaches of Rio and ring the site of Friday's spectacle, the famed Maracana stadium.Rio Olympics+
  on Saturday.
  

  Chandela shot an overall 411.6 to finish 34th out of 51 competitors while Paul finished further down in 47th place with a total score of 403.
  

  China's Li Du topped the qualification with a sublime 420.7, setting up an Olympic record in the process.
  

  The other seven shooters who qualified for the final were Barbara Engleder of Germany, Elaheh Ahmadi of Iran, Daria Vdovina of Russia, Virgina Thrasher of USA, Snjezana Pejcic of Poland and Siling Yi of China.
  

  The expectations for a better show from the Indian duo of Chandela and Paul, who had won the gold and silver in the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow, were dashed as they were found wanting in a top-class field.
  

  23-year-old Chandela had secured an Olympic berth for her country by finishing third in the 10m Air Rifle in the 2015 ISSF World Cup in Changwon, Korea.
  

  Later in the year, Chandela had won silver in the
  BACKGROUNDXShooter Apurvi Chandela wins silver in ISSF World CupThe 22-year-old Jaipur girl finished second on the podium after she tallied 206.9, just 0.6 behind Ahmadi Elaheh of Iran, who won the gold medal with a tally of 207.5.MUNICH: Young Indian shooter Apurvi Chandela impressed again as she clinched the silver medal in women's 10m air rifle event of the ISSF Rifle and Pistol World Cup Finals on Saturday.  The 22-year-old Jaipur girl finished second on the podium after she tallied 206.9, just 0.6 behind Ahmadi Elaheh of Iran, who won the gold medal with a tally of 207.5.  Andrea Arsovic of Serbia bagged the bronze after prevailing in a shoot-off with Croatia's Valentina Gustin.  In the finals, Chandela started on a rousing note as she fired two shots of 10.8 to lead after Series 1 of first competition stage. A total of 30.6 in the second series saw her a drop a place.  Thereafter, the Indian managed to remain in contention for a medal.  Chandela's final shot was a 10.2, which was just 0.2 less than the eventual winner Ahmadi Elaheh, who shot a 10.4.  The reigning Commonwealth Games gold medallist has already earned the country a quota place for next year's Rio Olympics by claiming the 10m air rifle bronze at the ISSF World Cup (Rifle/Pistol) in Changwon, Korea, in April.  Shooters with 10 best scores in each event of the year's four World Cups are entitled to compete in the finals.  London Olympic bronze medallist Gagan Narang and Gurpreet Singh had earlier reached the finals of their respective events in the tournament, but missed out on medals.  National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) president Raninder Singh was delighted about Chandela's performance.  "We are very excited in the way Apurvi (Chandela) has developed as a shooter over the past years. She has been raising the bar with every outing. This performance today has confirmed her status as one of the top women rifle shooters of the world in her discipline. I am sure this medal will spur her for more consistency and greater glory and will act as a confidence booster as she prepares herself for the Rio 2016 Olympics," Singh said.  Expressing his happiness at the result, Kuldeep Chandela, father of Apurvi Chandela, said: "The family is delighted at this result, especially because it was a premiere competition between the year's top shooters in the event.  "We are indebted to the coach (Stanislav) Lapidius, who has always shown great confidence in Apurvi's abilities throughout and worked very hard with her. We would also like to thank the NRAI for supporting her all through and taking care of all administrative matters, so that Apurvi could concentrate solely on her sport.  "Her record suggests that she is the best finalist among all Indian shooters as every time she makes the final rounds, she comes back with a medal of some colour. This medal will surely boost her confidence even more towards the aim of winning an Olympic medal, hopefully gold," he added.  Follow TOI Sports on Twitter >>> @TOISportsNews  RELATED STORIESWorld Cup Final+
  held in Munich.
  

  Paul, who is also 23, had won an Olympic quota for India with a silver in the Asian Olympic Qualifying Competition in January.
  
