
Change begins here: Be a Citizen Reporter with TOI
#Change begins here: Be a Citizen Reporter with TOI#The Times of India has always believed in empowering its readers. In its 178 years of existence, the world's largest circulated English newspaper and its readers have moved in tandem - both crucible and chronicler, shaping and being shaped by people and events around them. Look in the mirror for one and you will inevitably find the other.In addition to informing, educating and entertaining, TOI has been happy to play the role of friend, facilitator and, at times, a crusader. If our 'Chalo Dilli' initiative launched in 2006 was a call to make the capital a truly livable metropolis, the 'Let Delhi Breathe' and 'Unsafe Delhi' campaigns have relentlessly focussed on two of NCR's biggest problems — killer air pollution and women's safety. Our 'Raahgiri Day' initiatives opened up public spaces for activities by residents in Delhi and Gurgaon, while the campaign against the expressway toll plaza resulted in lakhs of people saving precious hours commuting between the two cities. Similarly, our tireless campaigns on the BRT stretch and the RTR flyover in south Delhi have given voice to citizens' frustration over poorly conceived road projects and changed things for the better. From overarching national campaigns such as 'India Poised' and 'Lead India' to more city-focus initiatives like 'Delhi Let's Get Moving', The Times of India has consistently focused its energies on issues and concerns that resonate with our rainbow coalition of readers. Where we have believed we can make a difference, we have not hesitated to take up cudgels — for instance, our ongoing campaign against noise pollution. We are particularly proud of our organ donation drive — in the five years since it was launched, there has been a sea-change in the attitudes of governments, institutions and the public on what is quite literally a matter of life and death.At a more local level, TOI has tackled head-on civic issues such as roads and transport, health and education, water and electricity, pollution and open spaces with the same clarity of purpose and doggedness that has placed it in a position to lead change across the country for so long.This is the power we want to share with you more and more. By giving you multiple platforms to articulate your problems, highlight the dirty and the tardy, and most importantly, to right a wrong.With social media being a big part of our lives, TOI has not only occupied top-of-mind space on FB and Twitter, it is also redefining how news and views are sourced, distributed and consumed.Android users, click here to download the TOI Citizen Reporter app.In tune with the times, the TOI Citizen Reporter app now puts the power of journalism in your hands. Be it a breaking news story or an unattended pothole, uncleared garbage or a sporting feat that's gone unnoticed, here's your chance to play local watchdog or good Samaritan. Shoot at site. Tell us what needs to be improved or fixed. All through your mobile.Apple users, click here to download the TOI Citizen Reporter app.Just download the app on your Android  or iOS device and share your news and views through photographs, video and audio content, or plain text. Selected entries will be published both in the newspaper and online. Don't just be an armchair critic. Be a mover and shaker. Be a TOI Citizen Reporter.