
Eyeing Pak, Army conducts exercise in Thar
#Army hones proactive strategy with massive exercise in Thar#NEW DELHI: Honing its "proactive war strategy" to swiftly mobilise and hit hard with multiple conventional military strikes across the Pakistan border, the Indian Army is conducting a massive exercise, codenamed "Shatrujeet", in the Thar desert.Several armoured, artillery and infantry formations have been mobilised for the high-tempo operations conducted under a simulated nuclear, biological, chemical (NBC) warfare environment, a defence source said. The exercise is being steered by the Mathura-based 1 Corps, one of the three principle `strike corps' of the 1.18million strong Army, along with `offensive elements' of the `pivot corps' under the South Western Command headquartered at Jaipur."Pakistan might be foolish enough to talk about tactical nukes as weapons but India's no-first-use nuclear policy is clear. It warns of a massive and harsh retaliation to any first NBC strike by an adversary , be it tactical or strategic," the source said. Army chief General Dalbir Singh Suhag is slated to review the final phase of Shatrujeet. The exercise seeks to validate the capability of the Army to "first generate and then maintain" intense offensive manoeuvres backed by long-range artillery and the Air Force. It will include major airborne operations, including paradropping of 2,000-3,000 soldiers behind 'enemy' lines.Though Pakistan has Shaheen and Ghauri series of long-range nuclear missiles, it often flaunts its 60-km Nasr (Hatf-IX) missiles with subkiloton plutonium warheads as a counter to India's conventional military superiority. Islamabad makes no bones that it has developed its tactical nuclear weapons to deter any Indian conventional military thrust into its territory. But the Indian forces remain unfazed. The Army was forced to develop its "pro-active war strategy" -colloquially called the Cold Start doctrine -after it took a month for its strike formations to be forward mobilised under Operation Parakram in the aftermath of the terror attack on Parliament in 2001. By then, Pakistan had managed to shore up its defences, even as the US worked to get India to stand down. Since then, the Army has been systematically building its capabilities to undertake mobilisation and cross-border strikes within three to four days, backed by proper logistics and reinforcements to sustain the momentum.