
'ISIS funder' of Indian youths held in Kuwait
#Kuwait arrests man suspected of funding ISIS sympathisers in India#

  NEW DELHI: A Kuwaiti national - identified as Abdullah Hadi Abdul Rehman Al-Enezi - who had helped in arranging finances for the travel of first batch of
  BACKGROUNDXHow a secretive branch of ISIS built a global network of killersHarry Sarfo, a former Islamic State fighter from Germany. (Gordon Welters/The New York Times)HighlightsISIS's secretive branch under Abu Muhammad al-Adnani has built a global network of killers.ISIS is planning simultaneous attacks in UK, France and Germany.ISIS is asking European militants to plan attacks in their home countries.BREMEN, Germany: Believing he was answering a holy call, Harry Sarfo left his home in the working-class city of Bremen last year and drove for four straight days to reach the territory controlled by the Islamic State in Syria.He barely had time to settle in before members of the Islamic State's secret service, wearing masks over their faces, came to inform him and his German friend that they no longer wanted Europeans to come to Syria. Where they were really needed was back home, to help carry out the group's plan of waging terrorism across the globe."He was speaking openly about the situation, saying that they have loads of people living in European countries and waiting for commands to attack the European people ," Sarfo recounted Monday, in an interview with The New York Times conducted in English inside the maximum-security prison near Bremen. "And that was before the Brussels attacks, before the Paris attacks."The masked man explained that, although the group was well set up in some European countries, it needed more attackers in Germany and Britain, in particular. "They said, 'Would you mind to go back to Germany, because that's what we need at the moment,'" Sarfo recalled. "And they always said they wanted to have something that is occurring in the same time: They want to have loads of attacks at the same time in England and Germany and France."The operatives belonged to an intelligence unit of the Islamic State known in Arabic as the Emni, which has become a combination of an internal police force and an external operations branch, dedicated to exporting terror abroad, according to thousands of pages of French, Belgian, German and Austrian intelligence and interrogation documents obtained by The Times.The Islamic State's attacks in Paris on November 13 brought global attention to the group's external terrorism network, which began sending fighters abroad two years ago. Now, Sarfo's account, along with those of other captured recruits, has further pulled back the curtain on the group's machinery for projecting violence beyond its borders.What they describe is a multilevel secret service under the overall command of the Islamic State's most senior Syrian operative, spokesman and propaganda chief, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani. Below him is a tier of lieutenants empowered to plan attacks in different regions of the world, including a "secret service for European affairs," a "secret service for Asian affairs" and a "secret service for Arab affairs," according to Sarfo.Reinforcing the idea that the Emni is a core part of the Islamic State's operations, the interviews and documents indicate that the unit has carte blanche to recruit and reroute operatives from all parts of the organization — from new arrivals to seasoned battlefield fighters, and from the group's special forces and its elite commando units. Taken together, the interrogation records show that operatives are selected by nationality and grouped by language into small, discrete units whose members sometimes only meet one another on the eve of their departure abroad.And through the coordinating role played by al-Adnani, terror planning has gone hand-in-hand with the group's extensive propaganda operations — including, Sarfo claimed, monthly meetings in which al-Adnani chose which grisly videos to promote based on battlefield events.Based on the accounts of operatives arrested so far, the Emni has become the crucial cog in the group's terrorism machinery, and its trainees led the Paris attacks and built the suitcase bombs used in a Brussels airport terminal and subway station. Investigation records show that its foot soldiers have also been sent to Austria, Germany, Spain, Lebanon, Tunisia, Bangladesh, Indonesia and Malaysia.With European officials stretched by a string of assaults by seemingly unconnected attackers who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, Sarfo suggested that there may be more of a link than the authorities yet know. He said he was told that undercover operatives in Europe used new converts as go-betweens, or "clean men," who help link up people interested in carrying out attacks with operatives who can pass on instructions on everything from how to make a suicide vest to how to credit their violence to the Islamic State.The group has sent "hundreds of operatives" back to the European Union, with "hundreds more in Turkey alone," according to a senior US intelligence official and a senior US defense official, both of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence.Sarfo, who was recently moved out of solitary confinement at his German prison because he is no longer considered violent, agrees with that assessment. "Many of them have returned," he said. "Hundreds, definitely."The first port of call for new arrivals to the Islamic State is a network of dormitories in Syria, just across the border from Turkey. There, recruits are interviewed and inventoried.Sarfo checked all the necessary boxes, and on the third day after his arrival, the members of the Emni came to ask for him. He wanted to fight in Syria and Iraq, but the masked operatives explained that they had a vexing problem."They told me that there aren't many people in Germany who are willing to do the job," Sarfo said soon after his arrest last year, according to the transcript of his interrogation by German officials, which runs more than 500 pages. "They said they had some in the beginning. But one after another, you could say, they chickened out, because they got scared — cold feet. Same in England."By contrast, the group had more than enough volunteers for France. "My friend asked them about France," Sarfo said. "And they started laughing. But really serious laughing, with tears in their eyes. They said, 'Don't worry about France.' 'Mafi mushkilah' — in Arabic, it means 'no problem.'" That conversation took place in April 2015, seven months before the coordinated killings in Paris in November, the worst terrorist attack in Europe in over a decade.While some details of Sarfo's account cannot be verified, his statements track with what other recruits related in their interrogations. And both prison officials and the German intelligence agents who debriefed Sarfo after his arrest said they found him credible.Since the rise of the Islamic State over two years ago, intelligence agencies have been collecting nuggets on the Emni. Originally, the unit was tasked with policing the Islamic State's members, including conducting interrogations and ferreting out spies, according to interrogation records and analysts. But French members arrested in 2014 and 2015 explained that the Emni had taken on a new portfolio: projecting terror abroad."It's the Emni that ensures the internal security inside Dawla" — the Arabic word for state — "and oversees external security by sending abroad people they recruited, or else sending individuals to carry out violent acts, like what happened in Tunisia inside the museum in Tunis, or else the aborted plot in Belgium," said Nicolas Moreau, 32, a French citizen who was arrested last year after leaving the Islamic State in Syria, according to his statement to France's domestic intelligence agency.Moreau explained that he had run a restaurant in Raqqa, Syria, the de facto capital of the group's territory, where he had served meals to key members of the Emni — including Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the on-the-ground commander of the Paris attacks, who was killed in a standoff with the police days later.Other interrogations, as well as Sarfo's account, have led investigators to conclude that the Emni also trained and dispatched the gunman who opened fire on a beach in Sousse, Tunisia, in June, and the man who prepared the Brussels airport bombs.Records from French, Austrian and Belgian intelligence agencies show that at least 28 operatives recruited by the Emni succeeded in deploying to countries outside of the Islamic State's core territory, mounting both successful attacks and plots that were foiled. Officials say that dozens of other operatives have slipped through and formed sleeper cells.In his own interactions with the Emni, Sarfo realized that they were preparing a global portfolio of terrorists and looking to fill holes in their international network, he said.In his briefings with the German authorities, and again in the interview this week, Sarfo raised the possibility that some of the recent attackers in Europe who pledged allegiance to the Islamic State's leader during their assaults might have a more direct link to the group than officials believe.Sarfo explained that the Emni keeps many of its operatives underground in Europe. They act as nodes that can remotely activate potential suicide attackers who have been drawn in by propaganda. Linking them are what Sarfo called "clean men," new converts to Islam with no established ties to radical groups."These people are not in direct contact with these guys who are doing the attacks, because they know if these people start talking, they will get caught," he said of the underground operatives.The intelligence documents and Sarfo agree that the Islamic State has made the most of its recruits' nationalities by sending them back to plot attacks at home. Yet one important region where the Emni is not thought to have succeeded in sending trained attackers is North America, Sarfo said, recalling what the members of the branch told him.Though dozens of Americans have become members of the Islamic State, and some have been recruited into the external operations wing, "they know it's hard for them to get Americans into America" once they have traveled to Syria, he said."For America and Canada, it's much easier for them to get them over the social network, because they say the Americans are dumb — they have open gun policies," he said. "They say we can radicalize them easily, and if they have no prior record, they can buy guns, so we don't need to have no contact man who has to provide guns for them."During his time in Syria, Sarfo was contacted by other German fighters who wanted him to be an actor in a propaganda film aimed at German speakers. They drove to Palmyra, and Sarfo was told to hold the group's black flag and to walk again and again in front of the camera as they filmed repeated takes. Syrian captives were forced to kneel, and the other German fighters shot them, showing an interest only in the cinematic effect.One turned to Sarfo immediately after killing a victim and asked: "How did I look like? Did I look good, the way I executed?"Sarfo said he had started doubting his allegiance to ISIS during his training, after seeing how cruelly they treated those who could not keep up. Making the propaganda video provided his final disillusionment when he saw how many times they recorded each scene in the 5-minute film. Back in Germany, when he had been inspired by similar videos, he had always assumed they were real, not staged.He began plotting his escape, which took weeks and involved sprinting and crawling in a field of mud before crossing into Turkey. He was arrested at Bremen Airport, where he landed on July 20, 2015, and he voluntarily confessed. He is now serving a three-year term on terrorism charges. (Reporting was contributed by Eric Schmitt from Washington, Franziska Reymann from Bremen, Germany, Yousur Al-Hlou from New York and Maher Samaan from Paris.) RELATED STORIESVoting starts in Britain on European Union membership referendumIslamic State group 'shrinking': US OfficialNice attack: Islamic State claims responsibilityIslamic State kills 17 Iraqi soldiers with suicide truck bombsIslamic State recruits+
  from India - Areeb Majeed,
  BACKGROUNDXISIS recruit ‘spotted’ on Twitter photoKALYAN: A Kalyan-based youth - one of four suspected ISIS joiners - has recently resurfaced on intelligence agency radars after his picture appeared on Twitter.  The Twitter handle Magnet Gas which is believed to be operated by Fahad Shaikh, another of the four youths from Kalyan who had joined the international terror outfit a year back, recently carried photographs of a boatload of armed youth. Amaan Tandel, who appears in the photo, has now been identified by locals and relatives in Kalyan.  The news came to light when a Delhi-based news channel splashed the photo about a week back. This is the first time any news of Tandel has reached his family since he left for Iraq last year. Unlike his three companions, Tandel never made any contact with his family during this time.  On being contacted, Tandel's father Naeem denied seeing any photograph or having any news of his only son.  The four youths - Areeb Majeed, Fahad Shaikh, Aman Tandel and Shahim Tanki - left for a pilgrimage to Baghdad in May 2014 and never came back. Except Tanki who was an HSC dropout, the other three were engineering students with well-to-do family backgrounds. Shaikh had a mechanical engineering degree from a Navi Mumbai college where Majeed and Tandel were students. Shaikh and Majeed's fathers are doctors, Tandel's father works in a reputed company in Mumbai and Tanki's dad is a businessman.  Of the four, Areeb returned to India last year and is presently in NIA custody while the news of Saheem Tanki's death came in January this year.   RELATED STORIESFahad Sheikh+
  , Saheem Tanki and Amand Tandel, has been arrested by Kuwaiti authorities on the basis of information provided by Indian agencies.
  

  Sources told ToI that Kuwait authorities have informed NIA through ministry of external affairs about Abdullah Hadi's arrest few days back. The Kuwaiti national is learnt to have admitted to 'terror financing' and supporting travel of ISIS recruits to the caliphate territory.
  

BACKGROUNDXI cleaned toilets while in ISIS, Kalyan youth Areeb Majeed tells NIAAreeb Majeed disclosed how he was completely sidelined by the terror group and had been asked to carry out menial tasks like cleaning toilets.Areeb Majeed was grilled for several hours on Sunday by the National Investigation Agency.MUMBAI: Areeb Majeed, suspected member of terror outfit Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), has revealed the names of the local contacts, who allegedly provided him the logistics to join the group to take part in the battle in Iraq, NIA officials said on Sunday.  Majeed also disclosed how he was completely sidelined by the terror group as he had been asked to carry out menial tasks like cleaning toilets or providing water to those on the battlefield, instead of being pushed into the warzone.  "Majeed was today grilled for several hours when he revealed the names of the local contacts, who radicalized him and his three other friends here, and helped them fly to Iraq. We are verifying his claims and are trying to locate these local contacts," a National Investigation Agency official said.  READ ALSO: Kalyan youth who fought for ISIS returns  However, the officer refused to divulge the names of the local supporters here saying it would derail the probe.  Asked for how many months he participated in the battle on the ground, the 23-year-old ISIS "recruit" said he was completely ignored and asked to clean the toilets and arrange water for those battling with the security forces.   The photo of Areeb Majeed that was uploaded on a website for a short while.  He told the investigators that despite his immediate supervisor's request, the ISIS cadres did not allow him to participate in the battle.  READ ALSO: Radicalized on net chat room, given Mosul contact, ISIS man says  His resolve to take part in the war weakened after he was left unattended for his bullet injury for three days before being taken to a hospital, he told them.    ISIS has attracted jihadists from all across the world. In this photo, a Chechen fighter appears along with other ISIS jihadists.  "Only after I begged them, I was taken to a hospital. I was treating myself, but the injury was worsening as there was no proper medication or food available in the camps," Majeed told investigators. "There was neither a holy war nor any of the preachings in the holy book were followed. ISIS fighters raped many a woman there," Majeed said while responding to one of the questions, an NIA official said.    Admitting that he and his three friends from Kalyan underwent training on handling of sophisticated AK-47 and rocket launchers, Majeed claimed the Indians were considered to be physically weak.  Majeed was arrested on Friday on his return to Mumbai after spending nearly six months in Iraq. He was booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) on charges of conspiring to commit a terrorist act and being a member of a banned foreign terror outfit, and under the stringent Section 125 of the IPC for "waging war against the nation" RELATED STORIESIslamic State group 'shrinking': US OfficialNice attack: Islamic State claims responsibilityIslamic State kills 17 Iraqi soldiers with suicide truck bombsKashmir must be under caliphate, not Pakistan: Islamic StateAreeb Majeed+
  , who travelled to Syria in May 2014 alongwith three other Kalyan-based youths, was arrested upon his return in November same year. He was the first IS operative to be arrested by Indian agencies.
  

  Areeb had disclosed that after joining ISIS in May 2014, all four travelled to Baghdad on the pretext of a religious tour. Their travel was arranged by an Afghan national - Rehman Daulati, who is learnt to have arranged finances for other IS recruits as well. They were stuck in Iraq as they had no money left with them.
  

  "Areeb Majeed then contacted Rehman Daulati, who gave him a phone number belonging to a Kuwaiti national, identified as Abdullah Hadi. Areeb told Abdullah that he needed money for further travelling to Syria. Abdullah told him to collect US dollars 1000 from a Western Union Money Transfer branch in Baghdad. The four Kalyan youth took the money and then travelled to Syria," said an official.
  

  Officials say that Kuwait has not only arrested Abdullah Hadi but has also verified his links with Islamic terror financing ring.
  

  The first Islamic State recruit from India - Areeb Majeed had got injured in a fight in Syria and later in a US-led bombing mission. He then decided to return to India and follow the ideology of ISIS here and carry out Jehad. He was in touch with citizens of several countries. He had also met Abu Hammam Iraqi, chief of Islamic State's Tasnia or ministry of defence and development in Raqqah, Syria.
  

  NIA had approached 11 countries including Kuwait, US, Turkey, Luxemburg, Singapore, Australia, Canada, Afghanistan, Hong Kong, China and others seeking details on contacts, finances, travel details and chats/email conversations of Areeb Majeed and three others through mutual legal assistance treaty (MLAT) and letter rogatories (LRs).
  

  While US, Turkey and Luxemburg have also shared crucial evidence with India in the matter, Australia and Canada have sought assurance that Areeb Majeed will not be given "death penalty" before sharing the technical evidence.
  

  Fahad, Saheem and Aman Tandel never returned from Syria and there have been reports that few of them may have died while fighting for ISIS.
  

  Officials say that international cooperation on information related to ISIS operatives has increased in last few years. NIA and police agencies have arrested 54
  BACKGROUNDXISIS recruits’ names foundKOLKATA: The NIA officials, looking into the penetration of ISIS in India, have found names of recruits in West Bengal from the database recovered from Afsha Jabeen, the woman arrested by Cyberabad Police two months back. Investigators are now trying to see if any of the names had appeared on the list of accused persons in the Khagragarh blast. The investigators are also tallying the database from Afsha Jabeen with that they got from Mehdi Masroor Biswas, arrested almost a year back.  Afsha Jabeen alias 'Nicky Joseph' was arrested by the Cyberabad Police in September this year after she was deported from Dubai. The 37-year old woman, who had been portraying herself as a British national, was tracked in Abu Dhabi and later deported to India. Interrogating her, the investigators came to know about persons she recruited through social networking sites.  "Quite a few of them are from West Bengal but we have not started tracking them down as yet," said an official with the NIA. According to NIA officials, huge amount of video clips were recovered from the laptops seized from some of the accused in Khagragarh blast. "Some of those were training-clippings of ISIS, while others were speeches of Al Qaeda and Hafiz Muhammad Saeed of Jamaat-Ud-Dawah of Pakistan," said an official. "The clips clearly pointed at the links of some of the Khagragarh accused with the ISIS apart from other terrorist outfits. All of those clips had a very strong jihadi message and had minute details of training terrorist outfits," said the official.  The central agencies have found that Afsha, who tried to convert people to Islam through social networking sites, had also prompted others to work in the same manner. Investigators have reasons to believe that the recruits of Afsha worked in the same fashion in Bengal and spread network fast.  According to sources, home ministry has already issued alerts for suspected ISIS activities in five states, including West Bengal, Assam, UP, Maharshtra and Jammu & Kashmir.  RELATED STORIESIS recruits+
  so far, out of which many were deported from gulf countries.
  
