
Jaitley: Social media an 'accountability' tool
#Jaitley at MyGov town hall: Social media an 'accountability' and 'empowerment' tool#

  NEW DELHI: Just before PM Narendra Modi's address, Union ministers Arun Jaitley and Ravi Shankar Prasad addressed a town hall organized by the government's citizen engagement platform, MyGov, to celebrate two years of the NDA government. After Prasad inaugurated the event, a group of panelists including Jaitley, Prasad and two prominent journalists discussed a number of issues pertinent to the town hall's theme, 'Do, Discuss Disseminate,' and the key issue it focuses on: Digital India.
  

  During the panel discussion, Union Finance Minister Jaitley discussed the impact of social media, calling it an "accountability" and "empowerment" tool. He also described the impact that public opinion had had on recent developments in the Rajya Sabha. "The pressure of public opinion helped in building an all-party consensus over the GST Bill," he said.
  

  Information technology and Law and Justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who lauched the MyGov app after inaugurating the event, said MyGov India had become "an example of participative democracy through digital media." He said the new app "would enable citizens to "connect with the highest levels of government."
  

  Prasad also commented on the current state of interactions between ministers and the people they served. He said he and his Cabinet colleagues belived in "live as well as digital" contact with citizens. "Information is power. We are using social media and digital medium to disseminate information," he explained.
  

  The IT minister also mentioned the increase in mobile phone use in India, and the success of PM Modi's monthly radio show - Mann Ki Baat. "More than 1.2 lakh people have given their ideas and 78 lakh have made phone calls to listen to PM Modi's "Mann Ki Baat"," Prasad said.
  

  Journalists Rajat Sharma and Smiti Prakash also participated in the town hall. Sharma emphasized the importance of " platforms where people give their suggestions and they can do it easily," and Prakash said the impact of regional news, also opposed to New Delhi-centric news, had increased thanks to social media.
  
