
Japanese will 'watch TV' if US is attacked: Trump
#Japanese will 'watch Sony TV' if US is attacked: Donald Trump#

  WASHINGTON: Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has attacked Japan, one of America's closest allies, saying if the US is attacked, all Japanese would do is "sit home and watch Sony television".
  

  "You know, we have a treaty with Japan where if Japan is attacked, we have to use the full force and might of the United States.If we're attacked, Japan doesn't have to do anything. They can sit home and watch Sony television. No What kind of deals are these?" Trump asked at an election rally in Des Moines, Iowa.
  

  Japan is a key ally of the United States and its crucial partner in the Asia-Pacific region.
  

  Referring to the US-Japan treaty alliance,
  BACKGROUNDXTrash talk leads to Trump slump at the pollsHighlightsCampaign missteps and relentless trash talk have affected Donald Trump’s poll numbers Hillary Clinton is leading by 9 per cent However, political pundits are not writing off Trump nowWASHINGTON: Campaign missteps and relentless trash talk have resulted in Donald Trump's poll numbers plunging in past week. Helped by a post-convention bounce for Hillary Clinton and Trump's own self-destructive streak, the Democratic nominee is surging ahead, leading by 9 per cent and above in several nationwide polls.Clinton led 47% to 38% in an NBC/WSJ poll and by a massive 15 per cent (48-33) in a McClatchy-Marist poll released on Thursday. If the margins hold, pollsters are saying Clinton is headed for the largest election blowout since 1984 when Republican Ronald Reagan crushed Walter Mondale, carrying 49 states and 525 electoral votes (leaving Mondale only 13 electoral votes from his home state Minnesota and Washington DC)Political pundits are warning that Trump cannot be written off yet with three months to go for Election Day. A sharply polarized country will also preclude such a rout, with states such as Oklahoma, Alabama, Wyoming, Idaho considered shoo-in for Republicans no matter who the nominee is.But it is a measure of the Trump train-wreck that states such as Georgia, Utah, and even Texas -- all Republican redoubts -- are now considered competitive. Hillary Clinton is leading comfortably in swing states such as Michigan, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, and toss-up states such as New Hampshire and Colorado are starting to lean towards Democrats."Trump's favorability ratings, following modest improvement after his convention, are now about as bad as they've ever been," statistician-pollster Nate Silver said on Friday, projecting that Hillary Clinton now has a 74 percent chance of winning (her highest mark in the polls-plus forecast all year) compared to Trump's 26 per cent, while cautioning that there was a lot of play left and elections tend to tighten in the final stretch.Silver is projecting that if current poll numbers hold or if polls were held today, Clinton's victory would be similar to the 365 electoral votes that Obama won in 2008.The decline in Trump's poll numbers is attributed largely to a series of gaffes that began from the day he declared his candidacy but have started to attract more scrutiny now that the novelty of his unorthodox campaign has worn off. Some of his utterances have been so bizarre that questions are now being asked about his mental stability and judgment, and while no one is saying he is completely unhinged, his pouty petulance, repetitive rambling, and incessant whining has embarrassed even the Republican leadership.House Speaker Paul Ryan on Thursday said bluntly that his support for Trump was not a "blank check" while barely holding back his distaste for what he called the Republican nominee's "pretty strange run" since the convention.A fundraising appeal Ryan sent out on Thursday reflected fear that the GOP could even lose the House majority (let alone Democrats regaining Senate and winning White House), something that is inconceivable right now considering the 247-188 advantage Republicans had in the 114th Congress - the largest House majority since 1928. A reversal of that magnitude - and majority - would be staggering in a country where typically 90 per cent of lawmakers are re-elected.But the mood in the GOP is now so toxic and the infighting is becoming so ferocious that Democrats are starting to see a glimmer of hope from developments like this one: While Ryan condemned Trump's scrap with the parents of a slain Muslim-American soldier, describing it as "beyond the pale," Paul Nehlen, a Trump supporter who is challenging Ryan in the primaries (where Trump has refused to endorse Ryan), has backed Trump's position that Muslims, including US citizens, could be deported from America of they don't subscribe to prescribed norms. Even President Obama, barely able to contain his aversion for Trump's histrionics, pitched in repeatedly at a White House press conference on Thursday, saying, with reference to the classified briefings presidential candidates are slated to get, "they got to start acting like President, and that means being able to receive these briefings and not spread them around. The remark was clearly aimed at Trump, who former CIA Director Mike Morell on Friday described as a national security threat.""In sharp contrast to Mrs Clinton, Mr Trump has no experience on national security. Even more important, the character traits he has exhibited during the primary season suggest he would be a poor, even dangerous, commander in chief," Morrell wrote in an op-ed."These traits include his obvious need for self-aggrandizement, his overreaction to perceived slights, his tendency to make decisions based on intuition, his refusal to change his views based on new information, his routine carelessness with the facts, his unwillingness to listen to others and his lack of respect for the rule of law," he added. Meanwhile, Trump's chronicles of everyday gaffes continue on the campaign trail, providing plentiful fodder for the liberal media and late-night comedians. On Thursday, after saying in campaign speeches that he had seen a video of a US plane delivering $ 400 million sent by the Obama administration to Iran, he backed down from the claim, tweeting, "The plane I saw on television was the hostage plane in Geneva, Switzerland, not the plane carrying $400 million in cash going to Iran!"It's one of the few times he has reversed -- without explanation or acknowledgement of error -- the many falsehoods he essays on the campaign. They are so frequent that political talking heads and bloggers have now taken to calling it out immediately amid a growing debate on a serious personality disorder.  RELATED STORIESTrump+
  said that the it is particularly worthy of ridicule.
  

  Japan, Trump said, should be forced to pay 100 per cent of America's military costs for protecting the island nation, not the roughly 50 per cent it pays now.
  

  Currently there are some 47,000 US troops based in Japan.
  

  In his speech, Trump reiterated that the US protects not only Japan but other countries like South Korea, Germany and Saudi Arabia. And these countries don't pay anything near what it costs.
  

  "They have to pay. Because this isn't 40 years ago. It's got to be a two-way street," he asserted.
  

  He also
  BACKGROUNDXHillary Clinton a founder of ISIS: Donald TrumpHighlightsTrump said it would be embarrassing to lose against Clinton.For past several months, Trump has been calling Clinton as "crooked".Trump said that Republican party was united against Clinton.WASHINGTON: Hillary Clinton is a "founder of ISIS ", Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has alleged as he stepped up his attack against the Democratic candidate."She (Clinton) should get an award from them as the founder of ISIS," Trump said at an election rally in Florida ."Take a look at Orlando. Take a look at San Bernardino. Take a look at the World Trade Center. Take a look at what's going on and then worldwide, and we let ISIS take this position," Trump, 70, said.He said it would be embarrassing to lose against Clinton."Wouldn't that be embarrassing to lose to crooked Hillary Clinton? That would be terrible," he added.Pushing back on reports that there is chaos in the Republican, Trump said the party was united."I think we've never been this united, and I just want to thank everybody for being here. This is incredible," he said.For the past several months, Trump has been calling Clinton as "crooked" and in the last few days he even said the former Secretary of State was a "devil."In Florida, Trump also claimed that 9/11 attack would have been prevented if he were the president."By the way, those people who knocked down the World Trade Center, most likely under the Trump policy wouldn't have been here to knock down the World Trade Center," he said. RELATED STORIESHillary Clinton calls Donald Trump a 'fraud'Donald Trump calls Hillary Clinton 'devil'Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton get ready for Madame TussaudsHillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders praise Muhammad Ali, slam Donald Trumpcriticised Democratic rival+
  Hillary Clinton policies.
  

  "You know, Hillary Clinton came out and said, 'That's terrible. He's not going to stick with our allies. 'We're going to stick, but once the ally hears her dumb talk, because it's dumb, why would they ever pay?" he asked.
  
