
NIA team in Kokrajhar, combing operation on
#NIA team in Kokrajhar, massive combing operation on#

  KOKRAJHAR: An NIA team on Saturday scoured the site and spoke to eyewitnesses of Friday's
  BACKGROUNDX14 killed, 15 injured in Assam’s Kokrajhar after terrorists open fire in marketKOKRAJHAR, ASSAM: Fourteen civilians have been killed after terrorists opened fire at a weekly market at Balajan Tinali in the heart of Assam's Kokrajhar. Security forces in the area have killed one of the terrorists. Fifteen civilians have been reported injured in the incident.An AK-47 has been recovered from the terrorist who was killed after an intense gun battle that lasted about 20 minutes. Additional forces have been rushed to the spot, even as other terrorists are being pursued by security forces. Apart from opening fire on the market, the terrorists also lobbed a grenade that ravaged three shops.Assam DGP Mukesh Sahay has said the attack was carried out by the National Democratic Front of Bodoland (Songbijit), or NDFB (S).Assam Chief Minister Sarabananda Sonowal has spoken with Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the incident, news agency ANI reported.This sudden incident of firing on people at a public place in broad daylight is first of its kind in the militancy-ravaged state. The shoot-out occurred when the state was in a state of high alert in view of the coming Independence Day.Defence PRO Lt Col S Newton said, "We suspect there were at least three militants and one of them have been killed. Army is searching the area for the other militants."Sources in Delhi have told TOI that the terrorists are suspected to belong to a Bodo outfit, that had issued a threat to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) recently. The sources said an attack in Kokrajhar had been anticipated.A survivor, Santosh Narzary, a trader at the market, said, "I saw one gunman dressed in black raincoat-like gown and another two were sitting in an autorickshaw. He wasn't firing indiscriminately but targeting people and taking one shot at a time."Times Now reported that one other person has been shot by the security forces, but there is no clarity yet on whether this person was one of the terrorists.(With inputs from Prabin Kalita in Guwahati, Neeraj Chauhan in New Delhi and ANI) RELATED STORIESterror attack+
  here in which 14 people were killed while a massive combing operation was on to nab the militants of Bodo separatist outfit NDFB(S) suspected to be involved in the strike.
  

  Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who visited the attack site, told reporters that the militant who was neutralised on Friday has been identified as Manjay Islari.
  

  "He is a self-styled area commander of 16th battalion of NDFB(S) faction. We will give the body to his parents," he said.
  

  He said that combing operation in the area has been intensified to nab those who fled after carrying out the attack on Balajan Tiniali market, about 12 km from here, just days before Independence Day.
  

  To a question, he said that the militants were not part of any suicide squad. "If they were part of a suicide squad they would not have fled."
  

  An NIA team has reached the spot and was speaking to eyewitnesses, officials said.
  

  Combing operation by police, para-military and army is also on in neighbouring Chirang district to nab militants.
  

  Defence sources said specialised troops, tracker dogs and other equipment have been pressed into service.
  

  The Army was also carrying out extensive area domination operations in the district to ensure swift actions, they said.
  

  The situation was described as tense but under control by police.
  

  Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal visited the seriously injured at Gauhati Medical College Hospital and inquired about their condition. He spoke to doctors there on providing them advance medical treatment, government sources in Guwahati said.
  

  Kokrajhar deputy commissioner held a high level security meeting with police, army and paramilitary forces to review the situation ahead of Independence Day, administration sources said.
  

  An NIA team visited the site and spoke to eyewitnesses of Friday's terror attack in Kokrajhar.
  

  A massive combing operation was on to nab the militants of NDFB suspected to be involved in the strike.
  

