
No swagger: A humbled Putin faces Russia 
#Russia's vulnerable side is at fore in Putin's call-in show#MOSCOW: A somewhat humbled, or at least not swaggering, President Vladimir Putin held his annual, live call-in show Thursday, with his answers to the choreographed calls intended to underscore his concern for the plight of ordinary Russians amid a second, punishing year of recession.Largely gone were the diatribes against opponents like the United States and Turkey. In their place was praise for domestic cheesemongers and Russian fishermen, and approval of government efforts to keep prices down for everything.Perhaps the entire marathon, three hours and 40 minutes, the 14th "Direct Line" session, could best be summed up by Putin's answer to a first-grader named Alina. She asked the president whether he thought a woman could become president of Russia. Her dad had told her that only a man like Putin could handle America, she said."We should not be thinking about how to cope with America, we should think about how to cope with our internal problems, our internal issues," Putin answered. "Roads, problems with the public health service, the education system, the development of our economy, economic recovery, problems of setting the pace of growth."If Russia addressed those problems, Putin said, the country would feel "invulnerable."But Russians were clearly feeling vulnerable, as questions poured in about high prices, unpaid wages, rising utility bills, and the closing of schools and hospitals. In all, around 3 million questions were submitted by telephone and Internet, television executives said, of which Putin answered about 60.The first questions were posed by two studio anchors who pulled them from social media platforms, one about the steep rise in prices and the second asking when the economy would hit bottom."The government's economic officials keep telling us that we have hit the bottom in the crisis and are now on the way up again," noted the caller. "They've already said this seven times. Where is the Russian economy now as you see it?"Putin, who had previously predicted that economic growth would rebound by now, was more cautious this time, calling it a "gray period." The president admitted that the economy had shrunk by 3.7 percent last year, but said he expected it would only contract by 0.3 percent in 2016 and register modest growth after that.He also said there was enough money in the two main sovereign wealth funds and other reserves to tide Russia over for the next four years.That is a far rosier picture than outside analysts have predicted. The World Bank, for example, estimated this month that the economy would contract by 1.9 percent this year and said that about 20 million Russians were now living below the poverty line. There have also been widespread predictions that the main sovereign wealth fund, the Reserve Fund, could run dry by next year.Putin spent time defending the higher prices caused by a ban on some food imports from Western nations in retaliation for their sanctions over Russian military actions in Ukraine. In the long run it would make Russia more secure by producing more of its own food, he said, adding that, "all in all, I fully understand, I'm fully aware that that's a burden for people, for consumers."He also said that the government would maintain a high level of orders to military factories even as the Kremlin has cut defense spending, a claim questioned by experts.A recent poll taken by the Levada Center indicated that economic matters were very much on people's minds, outpacing their interest in foreign policy. Asked their main concern at the moment, 49 percent of Russians said income level and the economy; 28 percent said social benefits and medical costs; 21 percent said price hikes.There were a few unscripted moments during the call-in show. As questions sent by text message flashed by on the screen, one referred to allegations that associates of Putin had siphoned off $2 billion into an offshore account set up through a law office in Panama. "Tell me who your friends are and I will tell you who you are," the question said, quoting a Russian proverb.Putin again denied there was any substance to the allegations contained in reports about the so-called Panama Papers, and suggested that others were trying to embarrass Russia.There were complaints from members of the studio audience on perennial issues, like business inspections carried out by government agents that impeded entrepreneurial work. Putin said that the number of such inspections had been reduced by one-third.Even as he was speaking, however, inspectors were combing through the offices of billionaire Mikhail D. Prokhorov, whose RBK newspaper has published a string of articles critical of associates of Putin, the Interfax news agency reported.Inspectors also raided the corporate offices of Ikea, the Swedish retail giant, according to an announcement by the company's lawyer. Officials have long cast an envious eye on the booming trade that the chain maintains in Russia, and there is now a fight over the land on which one of its biggest stores in Moscow sits.Some problems seemed to be addressed quickly. After the first caller, from the city of Omsk, complained about the poor state of the roads there, the city posted on Twitter pictures of new asphalt being laid down before Putin was off the air.Amid all the economic issues, there were some questions on foreign policy. Putin said that the Russian military had stabilized the situation in Syria and left enough forces behind to allow the government to carry on offensive action if needed.When asked who he would save first if he saw both President Petro O. Poroshenko of Ukraine and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey drowning, he gave a subtle smile and said, "If someone has already decided to drown, it's impossible to save them."He demurred when asked to endorse a U.S. presidential candidate, but in response to a question about the lack of choice in Russian politics, he pointed to the United States to defend his record. Bushes or Clintons had been running America for many years, he said, with another Clinton now running."I'm not saying it's that bad, there are benefits and there are drawbacks," he said.When he was asked a question about his romantic life, Putin tried to brush it off and turn back to the economy."I'm happy with my life," he said, while suggesting that saying more might have unpredictable consequences. "I don't know how that will affect the exchange rate or oil price." 