
Remove speed bumps on national highways: Govt
#Remove all speed breakers from national highways, orders Union road transport ministry#NEW DELHI: The road transport ministry has asked state governments and agencies like NHAI, state PWDs and BRO to remove all speed breakers from highways, which hinder smooth movement of traffic apart from being a safety hazard on high-speed corridors. The ministry has sought details of action taken by next Wednesday. It has also asked for details of rumble strips that have been laid with approval. According to the Road Accident Report (2014), published by the ministry, 4,726 lives were lost in crashes due to humps while 6,672 people died in accidents caused due to potholes and speed breakers.In its recent circular, the ministry mentioned that at many places local authorities are constructing road bumps or speed breakers to check vehicular speed despite guidelines being in place. "This is undesirable, as the function of national highways is to facilitate movement of traffic. Speed breakers can be a source of serious hazards and accidents to the fast-moving traffic," it said.Referring to its earlier circulars, the ministry said these recommendations provide for properly designed rumple strips at locations such as sharp curves on level crossings and congested or accident-prone areas where control of speed on national highways is unavoidable. "It has been noted that such rumble strips are being provided indiscriminately," the ministry said adding that location of such traffic-calming measures must be approved by the highway agencies. It also said the agencies should explore the possibility of providing foot over-bridges or pedestrian underpasses on national highways to prevent pedestrians from coming over. International Road Federation chairman K K Kapila agreed there should be no speed-breakers on highways, but said these come up as highways pass through villages and people need to cross over to the other side. "We need to provide pedestrian and vehicular crossings to end this menace," he said.