
Why urban India looks online for household help
#Why urban India looks online for household help#

  NEW DELHI: As workdays and commutes grow longer and as traditional single-breadwinner family models begin to unravel, an increasing number of urban Indians must contend with the challenge of finding reliable household help. But thanks to the Internet and mobile applications, it has perhaps never been easier for India's city-dwellers to hire a maid, a nanny, a repairman, a driver or a carpenter.
  

  A number of Web and mobile app-based service companies have cropped up in India's megacities in recent years, and some are doing well enough to be able to contemplate expanding their businesses to cover more cities and towns. Internet-based services are successful primarily because they allow clients to circumvent many of the hassles involved in finding, hiring, paying and managing household help professionals. Here are five ways in which these firms can distinguish themselves from traditional recruitment channels.
  

Safety and dependability


  Before a client decides to let a stranger enter his (or her) home, he has to know he can trust the newcomer to be competent, respectful and professional. Traditionally, Indians hire help through word-of-mouth, and that can be dangerous. That's why companies like the Mumbai-based MyDidi.in - verify their maids' backgrounds before inducting them into their 120-strong team of household help professionals. "Many families with children opt for us just because of the trust factor, " MyDidi representative Mayank Kabra explained to TOI. He added that MyDidi's maids - who are deployed in Mumbai and Thane - are also trained in a prototype apartment to ensure competence, and are taught interpersonal skills to ensure professionalism.
  

Reliable service in specific time windows


  You don't really require a maid to come home every day, but need someone to fix your AC for for you between 3 pm and 5 pm tomorrow? Then Mr.Right - a three-year old 'Home Improvement aggregator' founded by Prashant Chaudhary and Mayank Agrawal - may be able to help you find the person you need. The company's website and mobile apps help users in fifteen Indian cities find precisely the best person to get any given job done, a company representative told TOI. "Instead of giving our customers a list of service providers to choose from - of which the customers may have no knowledge of - we provide our customers with the right person at the right place at the right time to do the right job instead of the customers having to haggle with several options," he added.
  

Stability


  For some households, reliability means stability - household help providers who work less like hourly-paid professionals are more like employees. Such help can be tricky to find, and that's precisely the problem BookMyBai.com - 1.5 year-old Mumbai-based company founded by Anupam Sinhal and Vickash Chowdhury - tries to fix. While most start-ups in this space focus on on-demand help, BookMyBai.com only mediates permanent hires, Singhal told TOI. Between 1,000 and 1,200 clients in Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad, and Bengaluru use the service every month to hire maids with vetted profiles, and all of them pay their help directly every month - after shelling out an initial service charge to BookMyBai.
  

Catering to precise demands


  What does a expat from Beijing looking for a chef who knows how to cook Chinese do? Sinhal says his company can help. With over 20,000 maids in their database, BookMyBai can harness the potential of technology to provide its consumers with the "power of choice, " Singhal said. "That kind of exclusivity is something we're good at," he added.
  

Happier employees, happier customers


  Usually, the maid, cook, or driver who actually works for a client on a on-off or day-to-day basis is the face of the company he or she represents. So it makes sense for household help services firms to make sure their employees are happy at work. Satisfied employees are more likely to do better work, and keep their clients satisfied, says BookMyBai's Sinhal. His company differentiates itself by other employers by waving application costs and commissions on its maids' take-home salaries.
  

  MyDidi's maids also enjoy a number of perks. For starters, they get a fixed income based on the number of hours they work every month, Mayank Kabra told TOI. The company also offers the maids bonuses based on the quality of their work and on the number of orders they fulfill, and provides them with uniforms, raincoats and cleaning supplies. In some cases, the maids' husbands, fathers, or brothers are also MyDidi employees, he said.
  
