
Wife poses as fake cop to impress hubby, arrested
#Wife poses as fake cop to impress husband, arrested#A 24-year-old imaginative housewife, who aspired to wear the pants in the family and earn respect of in-laws, landed in police net after her script went awry. Priyanka Patel, a resident of Halimni Khadki in Shahpur, did not want her husband to be controlling of her. She also wanted to send across a message to the spouse, an employee with a private firm, that she was as capable as him. The couple apparently even had a tiff earlier over his remark about male dominance being the order of the day. So, she resorted to a Bollywood-style con job -got herself a Railway Protection Force uniform stitched when she had gone to her hometown in Madhya Pradesh.Ten days ago, Priyanka told her husband and in-laws that she was no longer a housewife and that had been recruited as RPF constable. She also asked her husband to drop her to Kalupur railway station every morning for duty, which he did unfailingly. She would go back home by herself in the evening. The in-laws had no reason to disbelieve her because she also had a uniform ready. On Wednesday, too, Sanjay dropped Priyanka to the railway station. In the evening, when she was returning home, she bumped into two police constables Shivkumari and Urmila.They told Priyanka they had never seen her before and began chatting with her. When they asked her where had she undergone her training, she was flustered and at loss for words. Sensing something fishy, the two women constables grilled her further and a nervous Priyanka spilled the beans. She told them that she was a housewife and was posing as a cop only to create a good image of herself in her husband's family. During investigation, the railway police found that for the past 10 days, she had been taking a train to Maninagar from Kalupur railway station. At Maninagar, she would spend time with other women constables.The police checked the CCTV footage at both railway stations, but she was not found indulging in any criminal activity. Senior Inspector H C Rathwa said, "It was a race for superiority between the husband and the wife. There is no other offence against her except that she had impersonated a public servant. She has been booked her under Sections 170 and 171of the IPC. The cops produced her in the court where she was granted bail." When Mirror contacted Priyanka, her husband answered the call and said that it was a small issue between the couple which has now been sorted.