“Moments spent with SRK was like a dream come true”#“MOMENTS SPENT WITH SRK WAS
LIKE A DREAM COME TRUE”#"Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around." These were her words when she was asked about her second coming into the fbb Femina Miss India 2016 contest. We are talking about none other than the stunning fbb Femina Miss India 2016 1st runner up Sushruthi Krishna. From being a Campus Princess 2015 finalist to Miss India 2015, she made her presence felt a year back with her extremely charming personality. Her Beauty with a purpose project was well appreciated by the Miss World Organization as they shared it on their official website and social media handle a year back. 2016 was her year, as she made a grand entry into the top 21 finalists of fbb Femina Miss India 2016 & with each passing day, she proved her mettle and made intensions clear that she was here to stay. So how did an architectural student who loved travelling and dancing pursue her career in the world of beauty pageants? We got into a candid conversation with Sushruthi Krishna as she spilled the beans on her future aspirations & her stint on stage with King Khan - Shah Rukh Khan.  How does it feel to be the crowned as Miss India's first runner up? It feels amazing to be crowned as the first runner up at Miss India 2016. This platform has allowed me to showcase the fact that we are beautiful and intelligent women.  You participated in Miss India 2015 and Campus Princess 2015 as well. How did it help you? From architecture to Miss India, how did you choose your career path? First being a part of Campus Princess and then being selected for Miss India in 2015 really gave me the boost and the confidence to believe that I have what it takes to be a Miss India. Although I did not get placed last year, the experience was filled with a lot of learning and personal growth. This experience pushed me to give my 100 per cent and work extremely hard towards my dream of winning the title of Miss India.   What has been your most memorable moment in this journey of Miss India 2016? The night before the National Costume Round, my costume was yet to arrive due to a courier delay and this got me worried if I would get it on time. At this time, I had so many contestants supporting me and telling me that everything is going to be okay. This sisterhood and bonding that we developed along this journey is something that's going to stay with me for very long.  What made you stand out as a winner? I believe that a winner is someone who is true to themselves and shares happiness with everyone around. It's very important to be positive inside to be able to radiate it and this is a quality my family has instilled in me.  Which International pageant would you want to represent India at? I would love to represent India at Miss Supranational as I believe that my radiant personality and the training that I have received will help me stand out from the other contestants and bring the crown back to India. However, I believe the organisation will make the right decision to ensure that the best representative is sent for each pageant.  Who, according to you, has been an ideal Miss India and why? I think Aishwarya Rai has been the ideal Miss India as she has done complete justice to all her roles - first as a successful woman in her career and then by showing great responsibility towards her family life.   What was going through your mind, when Shah Rukh Khan was sharing the same stage as you? I felt like the moments that we spent with SRK on stage was like a dream in itself. It felt like we were in a scene from his film.   Are you open to working in Bollywood? Any favourite director or actor that you are willing to work with? At the moment I would not be keen on working in Bollywood. To pursue any career path I believe that one should be have a flair and passion towards it. I personally am very passionate about designing and modelling. So, I would like to grow in these fields.   What's your take on Priyanka Chopra's achievements? I believe that Priyanka Chopra has been setting new standards of achievement for Indian women as she is making a mark on the global platform. This is such an inspiration to women in every field as we should try to achieve this in our own fields.   To all aspiring Miss Indias, what is your message? To all the girls out there, don't be scared to dream big. Only when you dream big, can you achieve big. Even if it doesn't come to you the first time, do not give up, believe in your dream and work hard, your dreams will come true.   