Fish, chicken or meat: What's better for your kid?#Fish, chicken or meat: What's better for your kid?#

  Whenever the time comes to introduce non-vegetarian in your kids' diet, we often face a common question - what to give? Meat, chicken or fish? Since the non-vegetarian diet is rich in iron, high-quality protein, healthy fat, vitamins and minerals, it is extremely beneficial for growing children to maintain their hemoglobin count and develop body stamina.
  

  A study reveals that between the two kinds of protein - complete and incomplete, a complete protein has the right proportions of all nine essential amino acids and they are most easily attained from meat, poultry and dairy.
  

  Jaee Khamkar, Nutrition Therapist at Fortis Hospital shares the best non-vegetarian diet for your kids:
  

FISH


Fish is the
ideal
non-vegetarian food source for growing kids.
  Fish is rich in protein of high biological value and contains many vitamins and minerals. Most importantly, it has Omega 3 and Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Salmon, tuna, cod, halibut and mackerel are some good and rich varieties of fish.
  






Here's why...


Brain and Eye:
  Fish contains lots of omega-3 fatty acid, Vitamin-A and DHA, which is essential for growth and development of the brain tissues. Not only that, it nourishes the retina and helps in maintaining good eye sight.
  

Improves Concentration Level:
  Fish helps to improve concentration levels, promotes good behaviour, reading skills and prevents your kid from an Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).
  

Induces Better Sleep:
  Salmon fish contains a special amino acid called tryptophan, which acts as a natural sedative agent and induces better sleep, thus relaxes the mind.
  

Improves Bone Density and Strength:
  Salmon has calcitonin protein that maintains the bone health by improving its density and strength and keeps bone and joints problems like osteoarthritis at bay.
  

Reduces Risk of Cancer:
  Eating fish on regular basis (three times a week) reduces the risk of Cancer (esophagus, oral cavity, colon and breast) including prostate cancer and ovarian cancer as it contains omega 3 fatty acids. It contains selenium mineral, which creates an enzyme to protect from cancers.
  

CHICKEN


Chicken is a great source of first class protein:
  Chicken provides better growth and development to the growing children as it contains lots of amino acids, which helps the children in growing taller and stronger.
  

  Chicken is healthy and a filling option for growing kids. They may consume only a small amount of calories but their stomach can stay full for hours. This decreases the likelihood of snacking on unhealthy food later in the day.
  





MEAT


Red meat such as beef, mutton and pork should be consumed in less quantity. This is because it has high contents of saturated fats, which can cause health hazards in the long run.
  

