Unique essential oils that can cure health problems#Unique essential oils that can cure health problems#Did you know that the curry leaf you put in your food can prevent hair loss? When it comes to maintaining a healthier mind and body, essential oils are greatly beneficial. Each essential oil has a unique purpose with incredible properties that can heal your everyday ailments, says an expert.  Deepa Swaroop, beauty expert at craftsvilla.com, has shared information about a string of unique essential oils that can help people cure health problems.  * Curry leaf oil: A tiny drop of this oil diluted with butter milk or juice, taken every morning can ease gastrointestinal issues. The oil also prevents hair loss, premature greying and maintains the hair's natural colour.  * Avocado cold pressed oil: Known for its regenerative and moisturising property, this oil works well for dehydrated and sun damaged skin. Due to its humectant properties that prevent drying out, this moisturising effect is long-lasting and works well on the hair.  * Turmeric oil: This essential oil is anti-inflammatory and provides relief from joint pain and arthritis. Ar-turmerone, a compound present in turmeric oil, is known to support the liver and keep it healthy and is helpful in curing skin ulcers at the same time.  * Frankincense oil: The Frankincense oil is carminative (an agent that prevents or relieves flatulence) and prevents gas from building up in the body and also gives relief from other problems like sweating, uneasiness and indigestion. When applied topically or inhaled, it can make scars and boils fade much faster.  * Fennel seed oil: This helps in relieving indigestion, pain in abdomen, stomach and chest. It also provides great relief to women undergoing premature menopause or obstructed menses by reducing the pain, dizziness and mood swings.  * Petitgrain oil: This essential oil works as an antiseptic and fights infection by inhibiting bacterial growth. This oil being anti-spasmodic in nature induces relaxation in the tissues, muscles, nerves, and blood vessels. The relaxing effect of the oil helps overcome depression and other problems such as anxiety, stress, anger and fear.  * Mogra oil: This works more on the mental and emotional level and is excellent for fighting stress and depression. It boosts one's confidence and brings joy and happiness. It is also an excellent aphrodisiac.  * Cinnamon leaf oil: Cinnamon oil boosts the activity of the brain and helps lessen nervous tension and memory loss.  * Cedar wood oil: Cedar wood tightens loose muscles, making them fit and firm. It is said to have a calming effect on the nervous system.  * Carrot oil: When externally applied, the carrot seed oil can cure skin infections and wounds. The anti-oxidants present in this essential oil repair a lot of the damages done to your tissues by oxidants and prohibit them from causing any further harm. Regular application can protect from muscular degeneration and sexual weakness.  