
IPL 2016: Delhi crush Punjab by eight wickets
#IPL 2016: De Kock, Mishra shine as Delhi crush Punjab by eight wickets#Quinton de Kock and Sanju Samson took Delhi Daredevils home with a 91-run stand as the hosts thrashed Kings XI Punjab by eight wickets in their second match of the Indian Premier League season nine at Feroz Shah Kotla stadium in Delhi on Friday.De Kock remained unbeaten on 59 off 42 balls, hitting a six and nine fours as Delhi chased down the meagre 112-run target with eight wickets and 39 balls to spare. Pawan Negi, 8 not out off 2 balls, smacked a massive six over the deep mid-wicket to finish the chase in style. Delhi registered their first win of the season with the victory, while Punjab suffered their second successive defeats in as many games. The target of 112 was always going to be a below par to defend for the visitors, but they started positively by taking the wicket of the Shreyas Iyer (3) early in the third over. Sandeep Sharma gave the breakthrough but they had to wait for more than ten overs to get the second as De Kock along with Samson took the game away with a brilliant second-wicket partnership. Samson was eventually clean bowled by spinner Axar Patel, 1 for 25, in the 13th over but Delhi had comfortably reached 100 by then, needing just 12 more in more than seven overs. Samson scored a watchful 33 off 32 balls, hitting three fours and a six.Electing to bowl, Delhi began their home campaign on the right note as their bowlers led by Amit Mishra restricted Kings XI Punjab to 111/9.Legspinner Mishra finished his fruitful day with four wickets for 11 runs in three overs, while for Punjab Manan Vohra was the top scorer with 32 off 24 balls, which included five boundaries. Interestingly Mishra didn't get the chance to finish his quota. Delhi skipper Zaheer Khan too bowled brilliantly to finish one for 14 runs in four overs which included a maiden. Zaheer started the Delhi attack with a tidy over in which he bowled four dots and conceded just two singles, it turned out to be a precursor to what was in store. Left-armer Pawan Negi came to bowl the second over and was welcomed with an inside-out boundary over extra cover by Vohra. But there was another twist in the store as in the next ball Zaheer dropped a tough chance but it resulted miscommunication between the batsmen and Murali Vijay was run out to hand Delhi an early break as Punjab were stranded on 8/1 in 1.3 overs. Zaheer followed that up with a maiden in the third to squeeze their opponents early in the innings.Vohra targeted Carlos Brathwaite in the final Powerplay over, hitting three fours in the 14-run over to take Punjab to 37/1 in six overs. But the introduction of Mishra in the next turned the tide immediately as the leggie dismissed Shaun Marsh (13) with his first ball to check the Punjab surge. Mishra followed that with two wickets in his next over, first he trapped Punjab skipper David Miller (9) leg before and then sent back dangerous Glenn Maxwell for a duck three balls later to reduce Punjab to 52/4 in 8.4 overs. Mishra didn't stop there as he continued the wicket-taking spree and clean bowled Vohra for 32 in the eleventh over to make it 59/5 for Punjab. Mishra's four-wicket haul totally broke the Punjab line-up.Two overs later, JP Duminy ran out Wriddhiman Saha (3) to add more misery on Punjab as they stuttered to 65/6 in 13 overs. Jayant Yadav then joined the party to dismiss Axar Patel (11) in the 16th over with Negi taking a brilliant low catch at the backward point. Mohit Sharma came out and hit a six off Yadav in an effort to break the shackle, first one of the innings, and followed that up with a four two balls later as they scored 12 in the over. Yadav finished his four overs with 1 for 23.Zaheer came back in the 18th and got a wicket with a clever slow ball as Chris Morris took a regulation catch at backward point to dismiss Mohit Sharma for 15. Morris chipped in with a wicket of his own in the next over when he dismissed Mitchell Johnson to finish his four overs with one for 19. Pardeep Sahu hit a six and scored 12 off Brathwaite's final over to push the Punjab total over 100.Brief Scores: Delhi Daredevils 113/2 (Quinton de Kock 59*, Sanju Samson 33; Sandeep Sharma 1/6) crush Kings XI Punjab 111/9 (Manan Vohra 32; Amit Mishra 4/11) by eight wickets