
Nexus with cops: Samajik Ekta Manch dissolved
#Nexus with cops: Samajik Ekta Manch dissolved#RAIPUR: In a shocking move, office bearers of Chhattisgarh's vigilante group Samajik Ekta Manch (SEM) announced to dissolve the outfit on Friday. The decision came soon after a sting video went viral on Thursday in which the state police was seen admitting that the cops in Bastar and SEM people were working in close association with each other. However, the SEM's notification, issued on the decision of dissolving of the outfit, stated that it has been done after some anti-social elements tried to take advantage of organization's reputation and attempted to ruin it.Sources from police department added that dissolving the Samajik Ekta Manch was the need of the hour as there was pressure from various sections. The decision of dissolving the outfit was taken by SEM members in Jagdalpur on Friday evening after a brief meeting. A press release shared by Subba Rao, SEM's office bearer stated, "The Samajik Ekta Manch was set up with the intent of helping the central government, state government, district administration and the local police in their fight against Naxalism. It is with the intention of pushing this agenda that the outfit has organized a series of non-violent and democratic protests to create mass awareness. However, some people used the activities of the outfit to demonize the local police and state administration. It is in keeping these circumstances in mind that the members of the outfit have unanimously decided to dissolve the Samajik Ekta Manch with immediate effect."But the SEM members will keep on helping police in their war against Naxalism, stated the press release further.In a sting operation conducted by India Today which went on air on Thursday, Bastar police was seen saying that SEM had driven an "international journalist" out of the state. Those who were being recorded in the video accepted that the outfit was meant to fill a void left by the Salwa Judum, the anti-Maoist civil vigilante force that took shape just over a decade ago to fight Naxalism.In 2011, the Supreme Court declared the Salwa Judum unconstitutional in response to a writ petition filed by sociologist Nandini Sundar, Communist Party of India leader from Dantewada Manish Kunjam, and others.Constituted in December 2015, SEM's activities were mostly centered around and near Jagdalpur. In its short life, the outfit has made its impact felt across Bastar. In past three months of the SEM's existence, journalist Malini Subramanyam was forced to leave Bastar, members of Jagdalpur Legal Aid group was forced to leave the town. Aam Aadmi Party leader Soni Sori was physically attacked and pamphlets were distributed inciting violence against researcher Bela Bhatia.