
PM blasts cow vigilantes, calls them 'anti-social'
#Self-proclaimed 'Gau Rakshaks' make me angry, PM Modi says#NEW DELHI: Breaking his silence over self-proclaimed BACKGROUNDXA day in the life of a gau rakshakCow crusader: Satish Kumar, president, Gau Raksha Dal, Patiala, sees nothing wrong with posting intimidating videos on social media to warn off ‘cow killers’Armed and itching for a fight, the vigilantes in Patiala's Rajpura village are very organized in their mission to 'protect' the cowIt isn't easy being a protector of cows. For one, it means waking up pretty early. By 4.30am members of the vigilante Gau Raksha Dal — in the news recently for allegedly forcing two men to eat cow dung in Faridabad and flogging four Dalits in Una, Gujarat — have been at work for hours.Smoothing down the tuft of hair that marks him a Brahmin, Satish Kumar grabs his phone as it starts to trill Radhe Radhe. The noise is drowning out the mooing of 1,500 stray and rescued Sahiwals, Girs and Tharparkars at his gaushala in Punjab's Rajpura. It's a call from a team that's been out all night looking for vehicles transporting cattle illegally for slaughter. "Jai gau mata ki. Chhodna mut (Don't spare them). Ram your vehicle into theirs if they don't stop. Don't wait for the police," Kumar instructs them.Soon, toned young men with ripped abs arrive at the gaushala. The call was a washout; there were no cows on the truck. So they get down to their morning workout. To combat alleged smugglers who move between cities at night, these 20-somethings train at Kumar's gym. Cow protection is not for the fainthearted, they insist, as they start their daily routine."It's a war against cow killers. Even if that means leaving your family or getting shot at, I will have no regrets," says Gaurav, a 21-year-old engineering student. The windowpanes of their SUV are smashed and its back is riddled with bullet holes. Kumar has attached metal rods to the chassis to avoid damage if they hit cattle smugglers' vehicles. Kumar, himself a former wrestler, has two licensed weapons, a .32 bore pistol and .22 calibre airgun.After routine chores at the gaushala, some of the young men practise their moves — how to draw swords, holster handguns, or leap into running SUVs.In the afternoon, some of them feed the cows and prepare fodder, while senior soldiers take lessons from an older member on cross-breeding of cattle. Another key objective of cow protection is to wipe out jersey cattle in India. A cow is sacred only if it is truly Indian, it seems. "Our second war is against the foreign breed. Only desi varieties," states Gurpreet Singh Bhangu.Around 6pm, a dozen of them make trips to mandis to bring 150 quintals of fodder — linseed cakes, oats, wheat bran (chokar) and green grass. Donors arrive with bags of mangoes and bananas, some give cash. The donations sometimes run into lakhs.Kumar says his team is in touch with members in 22 states. They are infuriated if you talk about the violence unleashed by gau rakshaks in Una or Dadri."Stop labelling us hooligans or communal. If those men have no emotions for our sacred animal, then we won't spare them. If they want to eat beef, they can go to Pakistan," says JP Bhatia, who has sold his wholesale salt business to fund the cow protection groups.Soon it's time for night rounds again, and TOI joins the SUV patrol. The men say tips come from various sources. Some of them carry lathis, others say their bare fists are enough to punish cow transporters."We have our own intelligence systems. We cannot share those, but we can track tyre treads to tell if a truck was carrying cattle for slaughter," says one of the young men. Several vehicles are stopped but none of them has a cow. The team heads back to the gaushala as dawn breaks.This was an uneventful night but records with the Punjab police show that 102 FIRs were registered last year under the cow protection Act as well as for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, and 166 people were arrested. Most of these cases were booked on tip-offs from Kumar and his team, say the police. Nearly 104kg of beef was recovered from smugglers.The team also posts its exploits on social media. Their videos on Facebook, showing them beating up cattle transporters, are graphic. Kumar's Facebook profile photo shows him posing with a gun pointed at the lens."These men attacked us first," says Kumar. "Besides, I get threatening calls from Hyderabad, Bangladesh and Dubai and I have already alerted the police about them. If they can try to intimidate us with their calls, why can't we intimidate them with videos?" RELATED STORIES'Gau Rakshaks'+ , Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for stern actions against them and asked states to prepare dossiers of those people who are running 'shops' in the name of cow protection. "I feel very angry at this Gau Raksha( cow protection) business. Some people indulge in anti-social activities in night and turn 'Gau Rakshaks' during the day. They have opened "shops" in name of cow protection. All states should take stern action against these people," the PM said while addressing a BACKGROUNDXPM Narendra Modi's first townhall meet1.PM Modi concludes his first townhall meet.2.PM breaks silence on 'gau rakshaks' at townhall meeting"Cows don't die because of murder but from consuming plastic from garbage. People should stop throwing plastic if they really want to do gau-seva," PM says.3.I am angry at people who have set up shops in the name of protecting cows: PM Narendra Modi hits out at cow vigilantes4."I urge state governments to prepare a dossier on self proclaimed 'gau rakshaks'"- PM Modi5.Mahatma Gandhi, Ambedkar, Patel as inspirationBaba Sahab Ambedkar should be an inspiration for everyone. Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhai Patel and infinite others have sacrificed something for the nation: PM Modi6.The various attires of Indian communities are our specialty. We should focus on what we have and other nations don't. Tourism is also connected with peoples' attitude, says PM7."E-visas have helped boost tourism. We should use our tradition and culture to pull tourists"- PM Modi8.Indian diaspora and India's foreign policyPM Everyone is connected to each other. The Indian diaspora has a power and a respect. The diaspora has become more proactive and assertive now. It can play a role in connecting India to the rest of the world, says Modi.9.Question asked: How do you manage to travel for such long distances and then work around the clock?PM Modi:  Productivity is not equal to energy, rather it depends on your dreams and motivation10.

		PM @narendramodi on his foreign policy#MyGovTownhall LIVE https://t.co/79K7AsEiKH pic.twitter.com/JLhhmFmsP7
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201611."If we spend just 5% of our total spend on clothes on handloom and khadi and we will transform lives of our poor"- PM Modi12.

		Khadi for nation and Khadi for fashion, this must be our guiding principle: PM @narendramodi#MyGovTownhall pic.twitter.com/9E6a8vSKx6
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201613.300 places in Rurban mission identifiedSmart city is a concept for cities and villages both. Facilities available in urban areas should be available to the rural as well. We have identified 300 places as part of our 'rurban mission'. They can potentially become development centres. They will have the soul of a village but facilities of a city, says Modi.14."Want to focus on value addition within agriculture sector via eMarkets"- PM Modi15.Initiatives in agriculture sectorWe are working towards making water available to farmers and their farms, says Modi.

He talks about soil cards through which farmers would be able to understand their land and utilize it in better manner.16.

		PM @narendramodi on importance of agriculture#MyGovTownhall LIVE https://t.co/79K7AsEiKH pic.twitter.com/gX0zjyPXYj
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201617."We have introduced insurance in budget; so that the poor receives good health care"- PM Modi18.Focus should be on preventive healthcare"If we are able to deliver safe and pure drinking water, diseases will recede automatically. Be it yoga, exercise or eating habits, we have to focus on preventive healthcare. Second is, affordable healthcare," says PM.19.PM answers question on health system"Public health is weak because we are ignorant towards preventive health measures," PM says20.Economic development should be constant, it shouldn't go up and down. This is necessary for us to be at the top, PM says21."Economic growth of more than 8% for 30 years will bring the best of the world to India"- PM Modi22.Tourism to help boost economy of the country"If thousands of tourists come to India, our cultural heritage will convert into economy. Taj Mahal is a source of income for so many people today. We should target to achieve a growth rate of more than 8% for the next three years. Indian manufacturers should target global economies," says PM Modi. "Higher FDI in the defence sector will help Make in India," he adds.23.India is among the fastest growing economies in the world, PM says
Agriculture sector in India is under a lot of pressure. In spite of recession which has affected the entire world, India's growth rate is commendable and I want to congratulate all Indians, says Modi. "Despite two droughts we grow at 7.2% rate. This shows we are fastest growing economy," he adds.24.Grievance redressal systems essential in democracy"Grievance redressal is an essential component of democracy, every citizen should have their problems addressed and responded to," PM Modi says. "Technology and good governance will benefit farmers. Most powerful thing in democracy is grievance redress system," he adds.25.Good governance means those processes that are redundant do not exist. Governments need to change, PM says26.

		PM @narendramodi talks about #GoodGovernance @ #MyGovTownhall

		LIVE https://t.co/79K7AsEiKH pic.twitter.com/Fzm9f1MvpP
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201627.Development and good governance should have a stable relationship"Good governance will benefit the common people only if it has a stable relationship with development. Good governance, people awareness and opinion makers are very important," PM says.28.

		PM @narendramodi talks about #GoodGovernance @ #MyGovTownhall

		LIVE https://t.co/79K7AsEiKH pic.twitter.com/3kD0AuOBdH
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201629.If the benefits of your contributions don't reach the needful then it's useless, PM says30."Responsibility with accountability is hallmark of good governance"- PM Modi31.In order to bring change to the country, last mile delivery is the most important, PM says32."Often, governments think only about winning the next election and then their policies are also shaped accordingly"- PM Modi33.

		PM @narendramodi on good governance#MyGovTownhall LIVE https://t.co/79K7AsEiKH pic.twitter.com/7RXxnwRH1b
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201634.PM thanks the citizens for associating with MyGov in such large numbers35.The three questions deal with PM's meaning of 'good governance', the economy and health sector36.PM takes first three questions in his first townhall event37.PM Modi also launches mygovindia's merchandise website38.PM meets and congratulates youngsters who developed the PMO App39.PM Modi launches PMO app at the stadium* App to have infographics about the work of government
* To be available in 10 languages40.PM Modi felicitates winners of various government competitions

		PM @narendramodi giving certificate to winner of 'Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat' contest. #MydayatMyGov pic.twitter.com/YzHKXcWghF
	&mdash; BJP LIVE (@BJPLive) August 6, 201641.

		The Prime Minister meeting some of those people who have shared their views during #MannKiBaat programme. pic.twitter.com/xdcWVJNTrP
	&mdash; PMO India (@PMOIndia) August 6, 201642.PM Narendra Modi reaches Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium (Delhi) for 'Townhall', will interacts with citizens shortly43."The government has optimized the use of social media, more than any other government in the world"- Journalist Smita Prakash44.Government's 'Digital India' missionOur PM believes that we need to be both digitally and physically present, RS Prasad says45.Government expects up to 15 crore people to join 'myGov' platform46."It is vital to have platforms where people give their suggestions and they can do it easily"- Journalist Rajat Sharma 47.News from regional areas, places other than Delhi is making an impact now, journalist Smita Prakash says talking about social media48."Information is power. We are using social media and digital medium for info dissemination"- RS Prasad49.

		We believe in live as well as digital contact with citizens. Ministers are always on field, among the people: @rsprasad at town hall event
	&mdash; Times of India (@timesofindia) August 6, 201650.The pressure of public opinion helped in building an all-party consensus over the GST Bill, Arun Jaitley says.51.Social media is also an accountability tool, Arun Jaitley says52."Social media an empowerment tool, empowering every individual both giving and receiving information"- Arun Jaitley53.Finance minister Arun Jaitley speaks at townhall event54.

		देश जागता है जगाने वाला होना चाहिए। आज @narendramodi की अगुवाई में और @mygovindia जैसे प्रयासों से देश जाग रहा है। #MyDayAtMyGov
	— Ravi Shankar Prasad (@rsprasad) August 6, 201655.

		Communications & IT Minister @rsprasad launches @mygovindia app celebrating 2 yrs of @mygovindia #MyDayAtMyGov pic.twitter.com/RMcBgIeXQM
	— All India Radio News (@airnewsalerts) August 6, 201656."It's our effort to connect with people directly in governance of India through MyGovIndia"- Ravi Shankar Prasad57.In last two years, we have added 12 crore mobile phones in India: Ravi Shankar Prasad58.

		In two years @mygovindia has become an example of participative democracy through digital medium. #MyDayAtMyGov pic.twitter.com/TNuN2nSEkz
	— Ravi Shankar Prasad (@rsprasad) August 6, 201659.

#MyDayAtMyGov : Minister @rsprasad says that MyGov enables you to connect with the highest levels of government. pic.twitter.com/FVTWa2RlSu
	— MyGovIndia (@mygovindia) August 6, 201660.Ravi Shankar Prasad launches MyGovIndia app.61.More than 1.2 lakh people have given their ideas and 78 lakh have made phone calls to listen to PM Modi's "Mann Ki Baat": Ravi Shankar Prasad