
Rio Games: Rower Dattu Bhokanal in quarter-finals
#India Rio 2016: Rower Dattu Bhokanal enters quarter-finals in single sculls#

  RIO DE JANEIRO: Indian rower
  BACKGROUNDXRower Dattu Bhokanal: From farmlands to Rio watersNEW DELHI: Everything seemed lost for Dattu Bhokanal when his father died five years back. All the savings they had was spent on the treatment of his father, who was a farmer as well as a well digger in a Nashik village in Maharashtra. Dattu, 20 years old then, was left with only a piece of land to earn a living for his mother and two younger brothers. But he had dreams and also the determination to fulfil them. On Monday, the 25-year-old became the only rower from India to qualify for the Rio Olympics. Bhokanal qualified in the men's single sculls event after securing the second spot in the 2016 FISA Asian and Oceania Olympic qualification event in Chungju, South Korea."It's a dream come true. I come from a very modest background and reaching the Olympics is a big thing for me," Bhokanal told TOI.Bhokanal, who tilled his land to grow vegetables like onions after his father's death, got selected in the Army in 2012 through an open recruitment drive. That gave his life a new meaning and he has not looked back since. "They noticed me first for my height and enrolled me into rowing," said the 6 feet 4 inches tall rower who's working as a Havaldar in the Army. "I kept taking part in tournaments and winning medals. I won two gold medals in the 2014 nationals and joined the national camp for Asian Games the same year."The fact that this armyman has qualified to perform on for the biggest stage in the world of sport after having started rowing only four years ago, shows his determination and the hunger to make his mark.Looking ahead, Bhokanal, who trains at the Army Rowing Node (ARN) in Pune, said he is not thinking about his performance in the Olympics and would take one step at a time. "We had nothing. But I have now made the grade. For me nothing is impossible. I will prepare hard for the Games."On Monday, Bhokanal (7 min 07.63 sec) was on course for a gold medal finish as he was leading the five-man field till the 1,500m mark but Korean Dongyong Kim (07 mins 05.13 secs) overtook him in the final stretch.Chief rowing coach Ismail Baig said Bhokanal had it in him to make it big in the sport. "He's from a modest background but is a very spirited person. He's sincere and hardworking. I think these are good qualities for an athlete."KNOW DATTUAge: 25 From:Nashik, Maharashtra Profession:Havaldar in Army Major medals: Two gold in 2014 Nationals; silver in Asian Rowing Championships in China Bhokanal will be the ninth rower to represent India in the Olympics.The others are: Kasam Khan and Inderpal Singh (Sydney 2000; men's coxless pairs), Paulose Pandari Kunnel (Athens 2004; men's single sculls), Bajrang Lal Takhar (Beijing 2008; men's single sculls), Manjit Singh and Devender Khandwal (Beijing 2008; men's lightweight double sculls) and Sawarn Singh (London 2012; men's single sculls) and Manjit Singh and Sandeep Kumar (London 2012; men's lightweight double sculls). RELATED STORIESAtanu Das selected for Rio Olympics3 more athletes qualify for Rio OlympicsBan all Russians from Rio Olympics: WADABrazil unveils 13 posters for Rio OlympicsDattu Baban Bhokanal+
  entered the quarter-finals of the men's single sculls after finishing third in his qualifying round of the Rio Olympics on Saturday.
  

  In the first heat of the day, Armyman Bhokanal finished the 2000m race with a timing of 7:21.67s behind Angel Fournier Rodriguez of Cuba (7:06.89s) and Mexico's Juan Carlos Cabrera (7:08.27s).
  

BACKGROUNDXOlympics: Blood thicker than water for Rio-bound BhokanalIndian rower Dattu Bhokanal. (AFP Photo)HighlightsThe daily fight for the treasured commodity led him to develop a fear of water as a youth.Bhokanal gave up his studies to support his family after his father died of cancer in 2011.Bhokanal wants to do something for his villagers, who still have little access to drinking water.MUMBAI: Rower Dattu Bhokanal has battled adversity to secure Olympic qualification and his journey to Rio has been made even more remarkable following a childhood bout of aquaphobia and fears for his mother's health during his final preparations.Hailing from a drought-hit region in the western state of Maharashtra, the daily fight for the treasured commodity led him to develop a fear of water as a youth and it was not until he joined the army in 2012, that he learned to swim.His phobia conquered, the 25-year-old Bhokanal booked his ticket to Rio after winning a silver medal in the men's single sculls event at the Asian and Oceania Olympic Qualification Regatta at Chung-ju in South Korea in April.Bhokanal gave up his studies to support his family after his father died of cancer in 2011 and his qualification can also be regarded as a reward for his ability to perform through another tragedy, which almost derailed his Olympic dreams.Shortly before he was due to depart for South Korea, his mother suffered brain damage in a fall resulting in almost total amnesia."It was difficult for me to concentrate during the event," said Bhokanal in an interview. "I was worried about what was happening back at home."Then I told myself 'I can't go on worrying about whatever is happening back home and must focus on the job at hand'."Bhokanal, the eldest of three brothers, tried to call his mother after securing qualification for the Olympics but was told she had slipped into a coma.He rushed back to attend to her but the positive news that she had regained consciousness was soon negated by the fact she could not recognise him with doctors saying her recovery was likely to take at least six months."She still does not recognise me as her son," an emotional Bhokanal said.Standing an imposing 6 foot 4 inches (1.95 metres) tall, Bhokanal was encouraged to take up rowing in the army but his transition from land to water was far from smooth.He initially kept toppling out of the boat and was fairly certain it was a task that did not suit him.Undeterred, he continued to train and a fifth-place finish in the double sculls at the 2014 Asian Games convinced him he had a future in the sport. The next year, he won a silver medal in single sculls at the Asian Championships in China.Bhokanal is confident of bringing back a medal for his country from Rio and wants to do something for his villagers, who still have little access to drinking water."I want to do something to solve the water crisis in my village," he said. "I will surely do something to at least solve the problem of drinking water for my people." RELATED STORIESBopanna takes a jibe at Peas, ahead of Rio GamesNarsingh cleared by UWW to participate in Rio GamesNo Rio games for Women's hockey team captain Ritu RaniRio Games: AITA snubs Bopanna's demand, select Paes for men's doublesBhokanal+
  was in second place for the first 500 metres of the race but started to lag behind once the Mexican in lane 2 picked up the pace around the 700 metres mark.
  

  The well built Cuban and the Mexican then increased their lead from the rest but Bhokanal maintained his third position although he was more than 13 seconds behind the second placed Cabrera.
  


Read this story in Marathi


